MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Medicine
Specialist-2 Program In Surgery
Spesialist-2 Program
Surgery
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Surgical Subspecialist Program of the Faculty of Medicine, Universitas Sumatera Utara, aims to become a center for education, service, and development of surgical subspecialists who are superior, leading, and dignified in Indonesia in 2030. Producing oncology surgery subspecialists who can compete globally, especially in minimally invasive head and neck surgery and oncoplasty. Producing digestive surgery subspecialists who can plan, implement, and perform post-liver transplantation care.

With a focus on developing clinical skills and up-to-date knowledge, students in this program will undergo intensive practical education in various surgical fields, including general surgery, orthopedic surgery, and plastic surgery. Graduates of this program will become leaders in the field of surgery, provide high-quality care, and contribute to improving healthcare standards in Indonesia.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

bedah@usu.ac.id

Vision of Specialist-2 Program in Surgery

The vision of the Oncology and Digestive Surgery Specialization Subspecialist Study Program of the Faculty of Medicine, Universitas Sumatera Utara is to become a center for education, service, and development of surgical subspecialists specializing in oncology and digestive surgery that is superior, leading, and dignified in Indonesia in 2030.

Mission of Specialist-2 Program in Surgery

Education

To educate prospective oncology and digestive surgery subspecialists who can compete globally.

Academic Education

Manage and develop educators and students according to the progress and needs of science and technology of medical oncology and digestive surgery subspecialists through training, research, and community service.

Service

Providing services in the field of oncology and digestive surgery subspecialists in a plenary and referral manner oriented to patient needs, safety, quality, and affordability by all levels of society.

Professionalism

Developing professionalism, capability, and accountability in the governance of the surgical subspecialist medical education study program, with a specialization in oncology surgery and digestive surgery, and the independence of implementing the study program.

Excel

The Surgical Subspecialist Education Study Program specializing in Oncology and Digestive Surgery at FK USU is designed to have excellence in education and ability in live donor/cadaver liver transplantation and minimally invasive.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Contact Us
Specialist-2 Program in Surgery
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Dr. Mansyur No. 5, Padang Bulan, Kec. Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20155

(061) - 8361418

bedah@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara