MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Member Of The Indonesian House Of Representatives Sofyan Tan Praises USU Rector's Courage Regarding The War Against Drugs
Member of the Indonesian House of Representatives Sofyan Tan Praises USU Rector's Courage Regarding the War against Drugs
Published At
29 October 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Member of the Indonesian House of Representatives Sofyan Tan Praises USU Rector's Courage Regarding the War against Drugs
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 29 October 2021

"We can no longer close our eyes that today drugs have entered the education sector, not only campuses but also schools. USU's courage to speak honestly and transparently about the condition of the university is a good step and must be appreciated. DPR RI appreciates that," said Sofyan Tan in his statement, Wednesday (10/13/2021).

USU PR - Member of the Indonesian House of Representatives Sofyan Tan praised the courage of USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin who took steps to eradicate drugs in the campus environment. According to him, the attitude of courage should be appreciated and imitated by other university leaders.

"We can no longer close our eyes that today drugs have entered the education sector, not only campuses but also schools. USU's courage to speak honestly and transparently about the condition of the university is a good step and must be appreciated. DPR RI appreciates that," said Sofyan Tan in his statement, Wednesday (10/13/2021).

He added that USU has made internal efforts but they were always stuck. Then, he collaborated with the Provsu National Narcotics Agency to unravel the drug problem he was facing.

"Voices of courage like this must be supported. As the oldest campus, USU has set a good example of the war against drugs, which should be an example for other institutions. This means that USU's leadership is committed to providing peace of mind to parents who leave their children at USU," said the PDI-P politician.

He also considered that USU's move to form the Anti-Narcotics Task Force was the right step to prevent similar things in the future.

"Indeed, the first step should be preventive (prevention), only if it can no longer be repressive (action). This task force in the future must be optimized so that prevention runs," he said.

The member of the Indonesian House of Representatives Commission X in charge of education, sports and history considers that what happened at USU is a warning to all, that there are negative efforts made by a number of parties to destroy the nation's generation through drugs.

"The yellow light as a warning sign must be responded to by all parties. Not only USU and BNN, but also all of us must collaborate to overcome this," he said.

According to Sofyan Tan, the task force will be able to collaborate with all sectors to be involved in countermeasures to prevent drugs on campus.

Sofyan Tan also asked parents to keep an eye on their children's development; because children are at home longer than anywhere else. "Parents should not be careless, the campus does provide supervision but it can't be as intense as parents, parents are the frontline to prevent their children from falling into negative actions," he said.

As is known, USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin has taken a policy related to drug prevention in the campus environment. Together with BNN, USU has taken action against drug abuse, which is already very disturbing.

The USU Rector will also take preventive steps by forming an Anti-Narcotics Task Force involving students, alumni, lecturers and employees. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Istimewa - -

News
Campus Life
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara