MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Rector Celebrates University's Successes At Awarding Cermony
Rector Celebrates University's Successes at Awarding Cermony
Published At
29 December 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Rector Celebrates University's Successes at Awarding Cermony
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 29 December 2023

Our achievements in 2023 have entered international rankings. We are also recognized as a university with great potential towards the top 500 in QS World University Rankings (QR WUR)," expressed the USU Rector.

USU PR- The Awarding Night for Achievements at Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) 2023 was successfully held, recognizing various categories of achievements for students and the best advisor lecturers. The event took place at the USU Auditorium on Friday (12/15/2023).

Throughout 2023, USU has received numerous awards from various aspects, including recognition for the best academics, accreditation program awards, awards for outstanding individuals and educational institutions, and various other honors. Students have also achieved notable accomplishments in various national and international competitions.

USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin S.Sos., M.Si., expressed his appreciation for all the achievements and accomplishments attained by the academic community throughout 2023. The Rector hoped that these awards would serve as motivation for future support and maximum contributions to USU.

"Our achievements in 2023 have entered international rankings. We are also recognized as a university with great potential towards the top 500 in QS WUR," stated the USU Rector.

USU Vice Rector III for Research, Community Service, and Cooperation, Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan, S.Si., M.Si., Apt., mentioned that compared to previous years, achievements have increased, both nationally, regionally, and internationally.

"Indeed, there has been an improvement. It's far from previous years; there has been a significant increase. Especially on the national level. Internationally, many USU students have achieved recognition individually and as groups," said Vice Rector III.

Vice Rector III added that the awards are meant to appreciate students who have carved out achievements, and it is hoped that in the future, such awards will be more focused, involving various faculties at USU.

"I believe it is always beneficial. So, this event is essential to appreciate those who have made efforts for USU. I think it should be more focused in the future," he added.

The Secretary of the Directorate of Student Achievements and Alumni Relations (Ditmawalumni), Rahma Yurliani, S.Psi., M.Psi., revealed that in 2023, the faculty that achieved the most awards was the Faculty of Engineering, with a total of 160 achievements.

The Secretary of Ditmawalumni encourages all students with achievements to report them promptly for data purposes.

"I hope that many student awards follow competitions and are reported to the university in an organized manner," explained the Secretary of Ditmawalumni.

For your information, the USU Awarding Night 2023 also featured entertainment with performances by internal, local, and national artists. Several alumni, working partners, and related stakeholders also received appreciation from the USU Rector, including the Mayor of Medan, Bobby Nasution, who received an award as an education advocate figure.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Achievement
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara