MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
34th PIMNAS - USU Team Researches Energy From Used Batteries And Paints
34th PIMNAS - USU Team Researches Energy From Used Batteries and Paints
Published At
10 November 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
34th PIMNAS - USU Team Researches Energy From Used Batteries and Paints
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 10 November 2021

The results of this perovskite-based research with used batteries that Nikayati and her team studied had a very high efficiency of 19.64%. "Our research has a very high efficiency of 19.64%, so this is much better than previous studies," she said.

USU PR - One of the Student Creativity Program (PKM) Teams at the Universitas Sumatera Utara that competed in the 34th National Student Scientific Week (PIMNAS) researched to find innovations that can generate electrical energy, using product paint and used batteries.

The PKM entitled "Solar Paint, Integrated Perovskite/TiO2 Paint, From Used Batteries Using Spray Coating Method as a Renewable Energy Solution" consists of FMIPA students, namely Nikayati, Ishmah Ulya, Siti Nurhadijah, Gusti Vita Utami and from the Faculty of Engineering namely Irfan Gunawan Siregar.

Team Leader, Nikayati said to USU Public Relations Officer on Friday (10/29/2021) that no research has been done on solar paint that can produce electrical energy in Indonesia. Previously abroad, someone had researched in 2018. However, this research only resulted in a very small efficiency of 4.13%.

The results of this perovskite-based research with used batteries that Nikayati and her team studied had a very high efficiency of 19.64%. "Our research has a very high efficiency of 19.64%, so this is much better than previous studies," she said.

This team chose to use used batteries as perovskite extraction material because used batteries have not been used optimally, even though one used battery has a lot of PBU2 powder. In addition, used batteries have a high level of purity, which is above 95%. Nikati also said that her team had conducted a literature study on the spray coating method. The spray coating method is easy to apply and has an even thickness.

"This method has and offers a number of advantages in making solar cell films," said this FMIPA student.

During the judging process, they received a good appreciation from the jury. Because this product has the advantage that from one cell can produces a voltage of 0.51 volts and high efficiency.

"The jury also appreciates because we chose materials in the form of waste, so they can be used," she said.

In addition, the resulting solar paint film has a high enough electrical voltage for the size of one cell, namely 0.51 V. The manufacture of solar cells will be further developed by Nikayati and her team. Innovations that can create electrical energy through this product's paint will have a good impact on people's lives and the environment.

“If there are ideas, students should consult the lecturers and read a lot of literature. My idea also came from reading literature,” she said. (©ULC)

Author: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Humas - Humas

News
Research
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara