MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Postgraduate School
Master's Program In Natural Resources And Environmental Management
Master Program
Natural Resources and Environmental Management
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Master's Program in Natural Resources and Environmental Management at the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) was established in 1985. Its focus is on developing human resources who deeply understand the environment.

Supported by expert and dedicated teaching staff, this study program provides quality education emphasizing multidisciplinary research. Graduates of this program are expected to be able to utilize, manage, and optimize Earth's natural resources and the environment for the benefit of humans. With various career opportunities as ecologists, nature conservation specialists, and environmental engineers, this study program is attractive to prospective students with great concern for the environment.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

sps@usu.ac.id

Master's Program in Natural Resources and Environmental Management

Accredited Very Good

No. 4650/SK/BAN-PT/Ak/M/VI/2024

Vision of Master's Program in Natural Resources and Environmental Management

To become a leading study program at the national level that participates in realizing sustainable development and has international standards by 2024.

Mission of Master's Program in Natural Resources and Environmental Management

Environment

Organize master's program (S2) in natural resources and environmental management to realize environmentally sound sustainable development.

Research

Organize and spearhead sustainable natural resource and environmental management research activities.

Public Service

Organize and facilitate public service activities in natural resource management and sustainable environments.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Science

Agriculture

engineering

Socio-Economic Culture

Law and Public Health

Contact Us
Master's Program in Natural Resources and Environmental Management
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Prof. T. Maas Kampus USU 20155

(+62)-618217346

sps@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara