MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
45 Vice Deans In USU No Betray The Trust, No Copy And Paste, Instead Become Creative And Uphold The Moral Standards
45 Vice Deans in USU No Betray the Trust, No Copy and Paste, instead Become Creative and Uphold the Moral Standards
Published At
14 July 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
45 Vice Deans in USU No Betray the Trust, No Copy and Paste, instead Become Creative and Uphold the Moral Standards
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 14 July 2021

MEDAN-PUB:LIC RELATION: USU’s Chancellor congratulated faculty leaders and reminded them that this Covid-19 brought a lot of issues and extra tasks. The oath of office taken today, according to the Chancellor, is the foundation for demonstrating our attitude, behaviour, and commitment to carrying out our duties

This is an important part of the messages conveyed by the Chancellor, Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos, M.Si, during his remarks on Wednesday 5/19/2021), when he inaugurated and taken the oath of office of 45 new Deputy Deans of the faculties in USU at Pancasila Building, Jalan Universitas Kampus USU Medan.

 

In addition to congratulating the newly appointed deputy deans, the Chancellor reminded the faculty leaders that this Covid-19 had brought a lot of issues and additional tasks. The oath of office taken today, he says, is the foundation for demonstrating the attitude, behaviour, and commitment to carrying out the duties. 

 

"This oath is part of an unbreakable trust that must be performed with sincerity and loyalty. This foundation must be laid to acknowledge the priorities of our position," Dr. Muryanto stated. 

 

According to the Chancellor, USU has documents that serve as the basis for carrying out the duties and obligations in achieving the university goals. The documents are the 25-year Long Term Plan (RJP), the 5-year Strategic Plan (Renstra), the vision and mission, and the Chancellor's work program for the next five years. 

 

"In 2021-2026, we have one goal in mind: internationalization. We must be aware of who we are. We must be aware of the existing challenges, strengths, weaknesses, and opportunities. To achieve this goal, we must first understand and recognize the state of each faculty. The deans and the deputies must be able to read and describe what needs to be done following the RJP, strategic plan, vision, and mission, as well as the Chancellor's work program," the Chancellor said.

 

Dr. Muryanto reminded the leaders of the faculties that the Minister of Education and Research and Technology, as well as the Indonesian people, mandate big hopes for the PTNBH. The goals will not be met unless a good program plan is developed. 

 

"If we want to list all of the important jobs, assess our condition, and accomplish a good program, we may not stick to our desires. The program priorities must be determined as soon as possible. We are nearly done with the first semester of this year. Therefore, we only have 4.5 years to achieve our goal of making USU a world-class university. You must be qualified and consistent in your work. In this situation, intelligence is critical. To carry out the entire program, creativity is required. Intelligence, precision and accuracy are all critical to make important decisions," he stressed.

 

In addition, the Chancellor stated that not all work can be completed at once. He requested that the deputy deans establish a priority scale for all-important works that are being completed. 

 

"The work program should be finalized as soon as possible. There are a few tricks to execute the programs. Instead of copying and pasting, we should create necessary and useful programs that accommodate the needs of communities that are in line with the objectives of the strategic plan, RJP, and also meeting the target of the Chancellor's work program. It is also urgent to remove unnecessary things and replace them with new ones. Besides, we also need to define all impacts, outputs, and outcomes of the actions taken. The intelligence and moral characters are heavily relied upon for formulating the program," he said.

 

The Chancellor believes that having moral standards for our works will benefit us. "As long as we rely on the intelligence and the moral standards, we will be able to achieve all goals. After all efforts, we need to pray to Allah SWT, so that all of our dreams and hopes be granted, and given good health. Praying is an important part that accompanies the effort. Without proper planning, no goal can be met. If we fail to plan well, if we lack moral standard, if we are careless and let things go unmonitored, then the goal of campus internationalization will be difficult to achieve," he says. 

 

The Chancellor concluded his speech by expressing his expectation that USU will produce alumni who will contribute to development. "We will be pleased and proud if we graduate approximately 9,000 alumni per year who can be useful and contribute to development. However, it would be different, if those graduates turn out to be the scum in society. The essence of life is to be useful for others," the Chancellor concluded.

 

The Chancellor congratulated the deans on their duty and reminded them to cooperate effectively. "Enjoy your duty. Happy working. Don't work alone, because it leads you to more difficult situations, "he said. 

Author: Renny Julia Harahap - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang, Muhammad Andriansyah - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara