MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Internship Program, USU Students Learn Freight Forwarding Operations At Pos Indonesia
Internship Program, USU Students Learn Freight Forwarding Operations at Pos Indonesia
Published At
17 November 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Internship Program, USU Students Learn Freight Forwarding Operations at Pos Indonesia
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 17 November 2021

Students from the Business Administration Study Program, Faculty of Social and Political Sciences (Fisip) of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) carried out group internships at the Medan Johor Branch Post Office, Johor Building Village, Medan Johor District, Medan City.

USU PR - Students from the Business Administration Study Program, Faculty of Social and Political Sciences (FISIP) at the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) conducted group internships at the Medan Johor Branch Post Office, Johor Building Village, Medan Johor District, Medan City.

The students from the USU Faculty of Social and Political Sciences (FISIP) Business Administration Study Program consisted of Yunanda Sibarani, Anzala Sahru Ramadhan, Faranisa Amalia, M. Aditya Rifki Ginting, and Leonardo Giovandhi.

The head of the student group, Yunanda Sibarani said, this observation activity was carried out so that students could observe the characteristics of operational activities, administrative systems, and the obstacles faced by the Medan Johor Post Office.

"So from this observation, students get a general idea of ​​how the organization works from the Medan Johor Branch Post Office," he said, Sunday (11/14).

PT Pos Indonesia is a state-owned company engaged in mail and goods delivery services which has its head office in Bandung and has 11 regional offices spread throughout Indonesia.

The procedure for shipping goods begins with the goods being distributed from a warehouse located in Tanjungmorawa. Goods are sorted first before being sent to the Medan head office.

At the Medan head office, packages are re-sorted according to the address that will be sent to all Sub Delivery Centers in Medan City, previously marked with a barcode and a code affixed using a receipt on the package or letter. The receipt containing the code and barcode serves to make it easier to track goods, as well as compiling an integrated data collection and information system at all Delivery Center branches in Medan. These barcodes and codes are integrated with an information system called IPOS.

Goods that are distributed from the sorting warehouse and arrive at the Sub Delivery Center Medan Johor branch will be received through the IPOS Web application, through a number and barcode scanning system with a manifest receipt processing code. In the manifest receipt process, each receipt and package code will be scanned. There is usually a pocket receipt, in the package bag, that describes the number of packages in one bag and a delivery sign called proof of delivery of goods. The proof of delivery of the goods is used as a relic for the designated office.

After that it was sorted again by the employees to adjust the package address according to the work area of ​​each courier. Packages that have gone through this sorting process will be sent directly by the courier. All proof of delivery in each bag will be collected together and then recorded using the Libre Office application.

According to Yunanda, there were several obstacles experienced during the operational process, including the IPOS Web application experiencing system problems, system disturbances experienced by the IPOS Web application responding late when scanning codes on packages or goods.

"The internet network is less stable, network disturbances are sometimes unstable, making it difficult to enter the IPOS Web application," he said.

In addition, Mail type packages that cannot be scanned through IPOS Web Computer, at the Johor branch Post office Scanning via IPOS Web Computer can only be done on packages with regular, COD and overseas types of packages, while Mail types are scanned separately using a smartphone that is IPOS Web application is already installed.

"Scanning via the IPOS Web computer cannot be done because the internet network at the Johor branch post office is unstable and requires scanning using a smartphone," Yunanda explained.

Yunanda said, POS Indonesia, which is the oldest expedition service in Indonesia, however still experiences several obstacles and difficulties every day in shipping, such as packages that are pending at airport logistics, so that old goods are to be distributed to the head office.

"This happened because of the practice of extortion from the airport. The POS Indonesia is unwilling to be involved in these kinds of illegal activities and as the results, goods from shipping POS Indonesia experienced delays in distribution. It makes the image of the POS Indonesia not good as the goods do not reach to the customers on time," he said.

Commonly experienced problems are incorrect addresses, customers cannot be contacted, customer refusals to receive goods.

Pos Indonesia provides COD service; with this service customers do not need to transfer money first to the seller. However, this service has pros and cons, such as an incorrect nominal, a recipient who cannot be contacted, or a customer complaint against the courier because the item that arrived did not match with what was displayed.

"This is of course not the fault of the expedition service, but the fault of the seller. However, this problem makes the expedition to be affected by the seller's error. POS Indonesia sends goods throughout Indonesia, there is no difference in delivery routes," he added. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Humas - Humas

News
Education
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara