MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
IKA And FISIP USU Present The Director General Of Kominfo RI
IKA and FISIP USU Present the Director General of Kominfo RI
Published At
23 May 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
IKA and FISIP USU Present the Director General of Kominfo RI
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 23 May 2022

So that people get better quality TV shows, because digital technology is better than analog technology, the picture is clean, the sound is clear. There are other benefits, such as economic benefits, can increase employment, "he said.

HUMAS USU - Alumni Association (IKA) Faculty of Social and Political Sciences (FISIP) University of North Sumatra (USU) in collaboration with FISIP USU held a national seminar entitled "The Importance of Digital TV in the Community". This activity was held on Friday (4/22/2022) by inviting the Directorate General of Information and Public Communication Kominfo Usman Kansong, S.Sos, M.Si who is also a Member of MWA USU and alumni of FISIP USU.

Usman Kansong featured on the importance of migration to Digital TV. In addition because it has been mandated by the Copyright Act, there are several benefits extra migration to Digital TV, namely the distribution of quality television broadcasts across all corners regions in the country as well as being able to grow 232,000 new jobs.

"So that people get better quality TV shows, because of technology

digital is better than analog technology, the picture is clean, the sound is clear. There is

Other benefits, such as economic benefits, can increase employment, "he said,

In addition, the frequency left by the Analog TV can be used to increase capacity the internet becomes 5G. This will also have a positive impact on the interests of handling disasters, education and health.

"The existence of spectrum savings is useful for the availability of 5G networks, an increase quality broadband internet. This can be utilized for economic progress as of today is developing a digital economy such as e-commerce, "he said.

Usman Kansong hopes that after this, the students' understanding will be more adequatethe importance of digitizing TV so that it can share information to the surrounding environment.

"TV digitalization is not just following the development of the times but there are other benefits for its society, "he said.

On the same occasion, Vice Rector I Dr. Edy Ikhsan, S.H., MA says, the theme which is carried in the seminar this time is one of the realities facing the community,where Digital TV has a very significant role in the dissemination process of public information. Going forward, innovation in the presentation of public information in engineeringincreasingly sophisticated communication will continue to evolve.

"The world in the digital age is not the world in the 80s and below where television is defined as a glass box that displays information from news channels that can be calculated with fingers, and is more centralized where information is centralized from a single source namely government, ”said WR I.

According to WR I, scientific activities invite practitioners, professionals and community leadersas this is a new habit in the education system that will continue to do so as part of education outside the formal lecture hall.

“It is very beneficial to increase the insight and experience of students through sharing experiences and sharing information from competent sources, "he said.

Dean of FISIP USU Drs. Hendra Harahap, M.Si., Ph.D also conveyed that the campus

plays an important role in supporting the migration program to Digital TV. FISIP USU together alumni alliances can work with governments to revive digital literacy, strengthen the will of the community to dare to digital TV, as well as build awareness about an enlightening and educating show.

General Chairman of IKA FISIP USU Hendra Utama, S.Sos., M.SP also hopes for a synergy awakened between faculty and alumni who already exist in their respective fields can continue goes well in helping the wider community.

“This is something that is going on and needs awareness in the community. Very socialization important because it has been regulated by Kominfo this year, so that the public can be ready switch to Digital TV, ”he concluded. (ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara