MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Excellent Research
Optimizing Plastic Strength With A Magic Touch Of Compatibilizer
Optimizing Plastic Strength with a Magic Touch of Compatibilizer
Published At
17 May 2024
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Optimizing Plastic Strength with a Magic Touch of Compatibilizer
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 17 May 2024

In the evolving landscape of materials science, finding the most efficient and effective material formulations is still a matter of constant research. Today, plastic is one of the most versatile materials in the world, and polypropylene (PP) is its star. PP has tough properties but can be brittle sometimes. This trait certainly still leaves researchers wondering how to find a blend of materials to make it more perfect.

I. P. Mahendra, B. Wirjosentono, Tamrin, H. Ismail, J. A. Mendez, and V. Causin made a breakthrough in this endeavor. Their research, which was conducted with different backgrounds, found promising results. The research pattern focused on diving into the world of PP blends, with a particular focus on improving its properties through compatibilization. Blending PP with other polymeric materials not only expanded its scope but also addressed its susceptibility to oxidative stress. Their hard work found a bright spot by using the precise method of compatibilization.  

Mahendra, a chemist at the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), explained that the research journey began with a common challenge: the lack of adhesion between PP and cyclic natural rubber (CNR). When these materials meet, their inability to mix hampers their potential applications. At that point, compatibilizers emerged as the guiding answer in this narrative, offering a solution to bridge the gap between these seemingly incompatible materials. 

“We chose CNR and PP as the base materials. We started the mixing process by using polymers grafted with maleic anhydride, including POLYBOND 3002 and 3200 and CNR-g-MA as the compatibilizer. Using Brabender’s in-house mixer, we concocted a blend that will undergo rigorous mechanical properties testing following standards,” Mahendra said.  

Mahendra admits that the integration of 1 wt.% of CNR-g-MA showed the highest mechanical properties, signifying a significant improvement. The thermal stability of the blend was significantly improved with the integration of the polymer grafted with maleic anhydride (MA). This expands the potential applications of these blends and strengthens their reliability under various conditions. 

Researchers have revealed a way to improve the mechanical properties and thermal stability of PP/CNR blends. The tremendous impact opens up broader possibilities for blending incompatible materials to produce valuable materials. The power of compatibilizers has reshaped the landscape of polymer blends.  

This discovery brings us closer to a world where compatibility knows no bounds and where the potential of polymer blends can break down barriers. Material formation innovation has also become an exciting science. This study provides insight into the transformative potential of compatibilizers and confirms the importance of collaborative research in materials science. 

SDGs
SDGs 9
Paper Details
Journal
Journal of Polymer Research
Title
The influence of maleic anhydride-grafted polymers as compatibilizer on the properties of polypropylene and cyclic natural rubber blends
Authors
I. P. Mahendra, B. Wirjosentono, Tamrin, H. Ismail, J. A. Mendez, V. Causin
Author Affiliations
Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences, Universitas Sumatera Utara, Medan, Indonesia
School of Material and Mineral Resources Engineering, Universiti Sains Malaysia, Penang, Malaysia
Department of Chemical Engineering, University of Girona, Campus Montilivi, Building PI, 17071 Girona, Spain
Department of Chemical Sciences, Universita Degli Studi Di Padova, 35131 Padova, Italy
DOI
https:// https://doi.org/10.1007/s10965-019-1878-2
Find More Articles
Research Articles
The Impact of Illustrated Modules in Combating Stunting on Nias
Research Articles
Green Innovation Practices in Palm Oil Refineries
Research Articles
Guardians in Silence: A Deep Dive into the Work of UN Interpreters

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara