MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Medicine
Specialist-1 Program In Forensic Medicine
Spesialist-1 Program
Forensic Medicine
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Specialist Program in Forensic Medicine of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is a study program that studies specialized medical skills focusing on teaching forensic medicine or medical jurisprudence. Established in 1982, this study program is staffed with individuals strongly committed to running a learning program with an integrated curriculum. You are expected to become a future forensic expert with extensive knowledge as well as good skills and attitudes so as to understand and solve health problems scientifically and prioritize empathy for society and the country.

This study program has delivered many forensic scientists, chemical analysts, and forensic experts to the judiciary. With a long history and brilliant achievements, the USU Specialist Program in Forensic Medicine will continue to be committed to forming prospective forensic experts who are qualified and empathetic in public and state health services. Students who have completed this study program will hold the Forensic and Medicolegal Specialist (Sp.F.M.) degree.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

forensikmedikolegal.fkusu@gmail.com

Specialist-1 Program in Forensic Medicine

Accredited B

No. 0045/LAM-PTKes/Akr/Spe/II/2020

Vision of Specialist-1 Program in Forensic Medicine

The vision of the Study Program in Forensic Medicine and Medicolegal Studies is to "Become a Center of Excellence in Specialist Education in Forensic Medicine and Medicolegal Studies that is high-quality, reputable, and globally competitive in Clinical Forensics and Forensic Pathology by 2024."

Mission of Specialist-1 Program in Forensic Medicine

High-Quality Education

To organize high-quality and reputable education in clinical forensics and forensic pathology.

Competitive Research and Publications

To conduct and develop research and scientific publications that are competitive at the national and international levels.

Community Service

To provide services and community engagement to enhance public knowledge of forensic medicine and medicolegal studies while fostering collaborations with domestic and international institutions.

Improve Scientific Knowledge

To improve and expand facilities, infrastructure, and advancements in science to support education, research, and community service activities in achieving the program’s vision.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Criminology

Forensic Toxicology

Forensic Odontology

Forensic Psychiatry

Forensic Entomology

Forensic Anthropology

Ballistic Forensics

Serology and Molecular Biology Forensics

Contact Us
Specialist-1 Program in Forensic Medicine
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Dr. Mansyur No. 66, Merdeka, Kec. Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20154

(061) - 8211045

forensikmedikolegal.fkusu@gmail.com

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara