MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
CoreLab USU Encourages Quality Journalism And Student Content Creators
CoreLab USU Encourages Quality Journalism and Student Content Creators
Published At
23 January 2025
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
CoreLab USU Encourages Quality Journalism and Student Content Creators
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 23 January 2025

“We hope this portal will become a medium for students to learn how to create news, text-based content, and videos at our expense,” Agus explained.

Public Relations USU - The Faculty of Social and Political Sciences (FISIP) of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) hosted the CoreLab (Content Creator Laboratorium) activity entitled “Quality and Sustainable Journalism”. The event was part of Promedia Teknologi's tour in collaboration with BEM FISIP USU and sponsored by BRI Journalism 360. It took place in the FISIP Hall on Wednesday (01/22/2025).

Researcher and Lecturer in Anthropology at FISIP USU, Yudi R. Harahap, M.Si., expressed his views on the relevance of journalism to anthropological studies. According to him, good data processing is the key to creating quality content that can positively impact society.

“Good media will make content an adaptive bridge between society and creators so that it can provide positive energy,” said Yudi.

This activity also provides students with an understanding of the importance of journalism, which is often considered less interesting by the younger generation. The President Director of Promedia Teknologi, Agus Sulistriyono, highlighted that USU has great potential to become a content creator training center in North Sumatra. He added that Promedia is ready to facilitate USU students' creation of a news portal as a place to practice content creation.

“We hope this portal will become a medium for students to learn how to create news, text-based content, and videos at our expense,” Agus explained.

Although there has been no official collaboration agreement, Promedia Teknologi expressed its commitment to continue establishing communication with USU. Promedia Teknologi's General Manager of Media Network, Agil Hari, explained the importance of training and developing article-based media or websites as a means of student education and practice.

“Creating content is a basic skill that is an asset in today's world of work,” he said.

In line with that, the Chairman of BEM FISIP USU, Mahogra Yuda Mayyasar, emphasized the importance of understanding the challenges faced by content creators in the digital era. He hopes that students can use this activity to explore knowledge related to media and the digital world.

“Content creators are not just about producing, but also about understanding challenges and collaborating,” Mahogra emphasized.

This activity provides new insights for students, especially in facing challenges in the media world. Therefore, Rayner Immanuel Sebayang, the activity's chief executive, hopes that collaborating with Promedia Teknologi can open up new opportunities for students to hone their journalistic and content creator skills.

“We hope that the literacy provided can open students' minds to be more directed in content exploration,” said Rayner.

For information, BRI Journalism 360, a program initiated by BRI and Promedia, aims to discuss the issue of sustainable journalism while encouraging synergy between sectors in the media industry.  

News
SDGs 4
SDGs
SDGs 1
SDGs 8
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara