MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Social Science And Political Science
Master's Program In Communication Science
Master Program
Communication Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

As an advanced level study from the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Undergraduate Program in Communication Science, the Master's Program in Communication Science consistently implements and develops quality communication science education.

With a focus on research and study of science on mass communication, interpersonal, group, intercultural communication, and media literacy, students can conduct research related to social issues. Qualified individuals in our study program can produce journals and scientific works that are accredited by DIKTI and indexed internationally with the help of highly dedicated and nationally certified teaching staff. The USU Master's Program in Communication Science is firmly committed to making its graduates excellent and globally competitive teachers and researchers in the field of communication as well as competent communication science experts as media practitioners and in political communication.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

fisip@usu.ac.id

Master's Program in Communication Science

Accredited Excellent

No. 5345/SK/BAN-PT/Ak.Ppj/M/VIII/2022

Vision of Master's Program in Communication Science

To become a center for communication science education that produces masters with competence and global competitiveness in the field of communication science in 2021

Mission of Master's Program in Communication Science

Education Development

Implementing and developing a quality communication science master program education.

Research

Conduct research and studies in communication science (mass communication & new media, interpersonal communication, group communication, intercultural, media literacy).

Public Service

Performing community service through training in communication science, public communication campaigns, and developing media literacy programs.

Scientific Information

Disseminate scientific information in communication through journals, scientific meetings, seminars, etc.

Organizational Capacity

Developing Study Program Organizational and Network Capacity.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Contact Us
Master's Program in Communication Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Dr. A. Sofian No. 1A Kampus USU Padang Bulan, Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20155

(+62)-618211965

fisip@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara