MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
University Activity
Pioneering Village Tourism And Mitigating Human-Tiger Conflict Through USU Assisted Villages
Pioneering Village Tourism and Mitigating Human-Tiger Conflict through USU Assisted Villages
Published At
19 July 2021
Published By
David Kevin Handel Hutabarat
Pioneering Village Tourism and Mitigating Human-Tiger Conflict through USU Assisted Villages
 

Published by

David Kevin Handel Hutabarat

Published at

Monday, 19 July 2021

From morning until noon, Timbang Lawan Village in Bahorok District, Langkat Regency, North Sumatra, was not fully illuminated by the sun. The road is wet with raindrops, making the air a little damp but refreshing because it is on a ridge filled with trees and greenery.

That afternoon, several people were seen sitting and enjoying grilled fish and durian fruit on the banks of the Bahorok River. The water is still very clear, reflecting the beauty of the surrounding nature. The view of the hills of Gunung Leuser National Park (GLNP) upstream complemented the relaxed atmosphere of the Assisted Village Team of the Universitas Sumatera Utara. At that time, the USU Assisted Village Team was enjoying a break with residents who were partners in the community service activities.

The Universitas Sumatera Utara, through the Assisted Village Team, led by Pindi Patana, S.Hut., M.Sc, as the head, has started the Assisted Village program with the theme “Building Village Independence in Mitigating Human and Tiger Conflicts in Timbang Lawan Village” on Sunday, July 11, 2021. The event was attended by several village officials, ranging from the village head and his staff, hamlet heads, and head of BPB to representatives of other community groups that are partners of the Assisted Village Program. Also present at this event were representatives from parties related to forest area management, namely the North Sumatra Natural Resources Conservation Center (BBKSDA-SU), the GLNP Center, UPT Forest Management Unit (KPH) Region I Stabat, and PKSM KPH I Bahorok.

These parties gathered at the Timbang Lawan Village Office. Then, they proceeded to several activities, including planting fruit trees and surveying anti-tiger cages, establishing deer rearing cages, determining the location of animal feed management, and designing an ecotourism ecolodge. A total of 30 durian fruit seedlings were planted in the Desa Binaan partner area at the beginning of the program launch. The land planted with durian seedlings will be developed into an orchard as one of the fruit tourism destinations to be developed in the village, which is located in the GLNP buffer zone.

At the program’s opening, the Secretary of LPPM USU, Meutia Nauly, S.Psi., M.Si., Psychologist, expressed that she was very impressed with the support given by many parties from Timbang Lawan Village. She believes that the USU-assisted village can provide new motivation for the people of Timbang Lawan Village to reduce problems and improve welfare. Meutia, a lecturer at the USU Faculty of Psychology, said every problem has its blessings. Ideas and enthusiasm emerged together from the conflict between humans and tigers in this village to advance the village. On that occasion, Meutia, representing the Head of LPPM USU, handed over the Memorandum of Agreement (MoA) between LPPM USU and Timbang Lawan Village to the Head of Timbang Lawan Village, Malik Nasution.

The Assisted Village Program in Timbang Lawan covers five areas of activity. The first field is the Construction of Anti-Tiger Cages with the coordinator Dr. Alfan Gunawan Ahmad, S.Hut., M.Si. The second field is Animal Feed Making with the Coordinator, Ir. Edhy Mirwandono, M.Si. The third field, Multi Purposes Tree Species (MPTS) Tree Planting with the coordinator of Dr. Oding Affandy, S.Hut., M.Si. The fourth field, Deer Maintenance, with the coordinator Dr. Ir. M’arifatin Zahra, M.Si. The last field of activity is Ecotourism Development with the coordinator Dr. Achmad Siddik Thoha, S.Hut., M.Si.

Pindi Patana, S.Hut., M.Sc, said that Timbang Lawan Village is very rich in natural resources and local wisdom. Frequent human and tiger conflicts have awakened USU, the community, and the parties to work together to find solutions. The existence of this conflict is a means of unifying various potentials and strengths that lead to sustainable forests and prosperous communities.

University Activity
Community Service Activity
Find More Activity
University Activity
USU Lecturer Concern on the Extinction of Orangutan Tapanuli
University Activity
USU professor turns shrimp shell waste into face serum
University Activity
USU Research Collaboration Lowers Stunting Rate in Sergai

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara