MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Cultural Science
Undergraduate Program In Ethnomusicology
Undergraduate Program
Ethnomusicology
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Undergraduate Program in Ethnomusicology of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) has existed since 1979. Over time, this study program has succeeded in producing outstanding students and creating ethnomusicologists who have spread across various regions in Indonesia. This study program's main focus is to study forms of performing arts related to the development and documentation techniques of ethnic music. Through the ethnomusicology approach, students are encouraged to understand the culture and traditions of a society through the medium of music. Supported by lecturers who are experts and certified in the ethnomusicology field and the use of an integrated curriculum, we are committed to providing an interactive education and learning experience to our students.

Our main goal is to produce the best individuals in the field of ethnomusicology who are competent and ready to compete on a national and international scale. Graduates of our study program have a wide range of career opportunities, from becoming a musician or artist to a career as a music or ethnomusicology teacher.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

etnomusikologi@usu.ac.id

Undergraduate Program in Ethnomusicology

Accredited Excellent

No. 1429/SK/BAN-PT/Ak.KP/S/IV/2023

Vision of Undergraduate Program in Ethnomusicology

To become an institution that excels in the field of ethnomusicology, with the highest national accreditation, international recognition, and global competitiveness by 2035. This is certainly in line with the USU’s vision, which is “To become a university with academic excellence as a benchmark for the advancement of knowledge that can compete on a global scale.”

Mission of Undergraduate Program in Ethnomusicology

International Competitiveness

To provide high-quality ethnomusicology education with both theoretical and applied perspectives that can compete nationally and internationally.

Education Advancement

To develop research in the field of ethnomusicology that promotes advancements in education, science, technology, arts, and entrepreneurship.

Community Service

To carry out community service with an ethnomusicology perspective to assist the advancement of traditional music culture in North Sumatra society.

Cooperation

To establish partnerships with businesses and industries in the field of music.

BINTANG Character

To equip graduates with excellence in ethnomusicology who possess BINTANG characters.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Ethnomusicology

Anthropology

Dance

Drama and Theater

Performing Arts

Creation and Analysis

Anthropology of Education

Contact Us
Undergraduate Program in Ethnomusicology
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Universitas No.19, Padang Bulan, Kec. Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20155

(061) - 8215956

etnomusikologi@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara