MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Professors Council Fun Walk To Build Harmony
USU Professors Council Fun Walk to Build Harmony
Published At
06 September 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Professors Council Fun Walk to Build Harmony
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 06 September 2023

First, DGB lacks entertainment, so this event is made compact. Besides sports, it can create cohesiveness. Second, this year we get EQUITY funds, the name, for internationalization, as much as IDR 44 billion, I intend to share how much DGB wants to follow this program. Third, entering the political year, let us not be divided, we get along well, and remain enthusiastic about deciding something based on consensus, "said the USU Chancellor.

USU PR-The Council of Professors of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held a Fun Walk with the theme "Healthy Walk to Support Academic Healthy USU" at the USU Rectorate Building on Saturday, (19/08/2023). The activity was attended by USU Rector Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., and the USU Professors Council.

This activity aims to build close relationships and harmony among the USU Board of Professors to bring the university to a better level and raise the enthusiasm of USU professors in their performance.

The USU Rector in this activity highlighted several important points in his speech. The Chancellor conveyed the need for entertainment and the importance of cohesiveness in the campus environment. Furthermore, the rector announced the existence of funds for the internationalization program, which will be distributed according to the needs of the university as well as for the work program of the USU Council of Professors.

Finally, the rector reminded us to remain united in upholding consensus, especially when facing the upcoming political year.

"First, the DGB lacks entertainment, so this event is made compact. Besides sports, it can create cohesiveness. Second, this year we get EQUITY funds, the name, for internationalization, as much as IDR 44 billion, I intend to share how much DGB wants to follow this program. Third, entering the political year, let us not be divided, let us get along, and keep the spirit of deciding things based on consensus," said the USU Rector.

Acting Chairman of the USU Board of Professors Prof. Dr. Thamrin, M.Sc as chairman of the committee said the DGB Fun Walk will produce other activities that are routinely carried out in the campus environment for the progress of the institution.

"We designed Fun Walk to establish a relationship between professors in addition to the activities. This is the first time we have made it and hope to develop it into a family gathering, we hope to do it at least once a year," said Prof. Dr. Thamrin, M.Sc.

Prof. Dr. Thamrin, M.Sc. said the activity could be carried out with the help of sponsors and support from professors who have produced business products.

"Preparations are indeed impromptu, we are assisted by sponsors, especially Bank Sumut, which finances the entire activity. We receive assistance in the form of food, clothes, tents, lucky draws, and we ask for additional production from our professors who have produced science into industries or MSMEs, "said Prof. Dr. Thamrin, M.Sc.

Finally, Prof. Dr. Thamrin, M.Sc hopes that the close relationship and harmony created through this activity can achieve higher and faster achievements for the university in a broad scope.

"We hope that as the goal, through cohesiveness, through togetherness, we hope that USU will quickly become more victorious in Sumatra and the best in Indonesia," said Prof. Dr. Thamrin, M.Sc.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Campus Life
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara