MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Medicine
Specialist-1 Program In Otorhinolaryngology-Head And Neck Surgery
Spesialist-1 Program
Otorhinolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Specialist Program in Otorhinolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is a provider of specialist medical education for the upper organs around the head or specifically studying all kinds of medical conditions related to organs such as the ear, nose, throat, head, and neck. This study program focuses on mastering knowledge in anatomical pathology, radiology, anesthesia, and other sciences related to ear, nose, throat, head, and neck diseases.

This study program has professional and skilled teaching staff, producing graduates who are spread across various cities throughout Indonesia as professionals, researchers, and educators with the scope of otology, rhinology, larynx pharynx, and six other subfields available in this study program. Students who have completed this study program will hold the Otorhinolaryngology-Head Neck Surgery Specialist (Sp.T.H.T.B.K.L.) degree.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

departementhtklfkusu@gmail.com

Specialist-1 Program in Otorhinolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery

Accredited Excellent

No. 0263/LAM-PTKes/Akr/Spe/IV/2023

Vision of Specialist-1 Program in Otorhinolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery

To establish the Study Program as a provider of quality otorhinolaryngology-head and neck surgery specialist doctor education program and produce ethical and quality otorhinolaryngology-head and neck surgery specialist doctors, equipped with academic knowledge and skills capable of competing in the global world by 2024, towards the centre of excellence in infectious diseases and oncology, supporting the vision of the Universitas Sumatera Utara Faculty of Medicine.

Mission of Specialist-1 Program in Otorhinolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery

Education, Research, and Community Service

To enhance the quality of education, research and community service consistently in line with the advancements of medical science and technology through proper and ethical organizational management and quality assurance.

Agent of Change

To produce graduates who are agents of change as a driving force of modernization in society, equipped with scientific competence, relevance and strong competitiveness in the global world.

Management

To focus on the in-depth knowledge and skills of graduates with an emphasis on the management of infectious diseases and oncology.

Facilities and Infrastructure

To improve and equip facilities and infrastructure that strengthen the processes of learning, research and community service.

Independent and Professional

To establish an independent and professional study program in the management and development of the institution and developing collaborations with both national and international institutions.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Otology

Rhinology

Laryngology and Pharyngology

Head and Neck Surgical Oncology

Maksilofacial Plastic Reconstruction

Allergy Immunology

Neurotology

Bronchoesophagology

Community Otorhinolaryngology

Contact Us
Specialist-1 Program in Otorhinolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jln. Bunga Lau No. 17, Kel. Kemenangan Tani, Kec. Medan Tuntungan, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20136

(061) - 8211045

departementhtklfkusu@gmail.com

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara