MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
FP USU's 67th Anniversary Discusses Food Security
FP USU's 67th Anniversary Discusses Food Security
Published At
28 November 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
FP USU's 67th Anniversary Discusses Food Security
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 28 November 2023

To conduct education and socialization of increasing the productivity of world food commodity crops to the community and to generate important innovations that encourage the increase in the production of superior agricultural products," said Vice Rector IV

USU PR- The 67th Anniversary Celebration of the Faculty of Agriculture (FP) of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held a scientific lecture with the theme "Agripreneur Millenial for Food Security." Musa Rajekshah was invited as a speaker at the event, which took place at the Main Building of FP USU on Friday (11/17/2023).

By carrying the theme of Agripreneur Millenial, it can foster the interest of young people in agriculture. This theme aligns with Indonesia's Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by partnering and collaborating with various parties to create food stability. The series of FP dies natalis events was also enlivened by Funwalk and other activities.

Prof. Dr. Opim Salim Sitompul, M.Sc., who serves as USU's Vice Rector IV for Information, Planning, and Development, said that the Faculty of Agriculture has a great opportunity and ability to take a strategic role, both at the policy and regulation level of the agricultural sector.

"To conduct education and socialization of increasing the productivity of world food commodity crops to the community and to generate important innovations that encourage the increase in the production of superior agricultural products," said Vice Rector IV.

The Dean of FP USU, Prof. Dr. Ir. Tavi Supriana M.S., delivered a speech on the developments in the Faculty of Agriculture regarding the achievement of the number of graduates obtaining decent jobs with wages above the minimum wage, one of which is entrepreneurship.

"In terms of the achievement of the number of graduates obtaining decent jobs with wages above the minimum wage, one of which is by entrepreneurship," explained the Dean of FP.

As the Chairman of the Dies Natalis FP USU Committee, Aman H Siregar explained that the purpose of carrying the theme was to increase students' enthusiasm for doing business in the agricultural sector.

"The goal is to increase students' interest in entrepreneurship in the agricultural sector," said Aman.

On this occasion, Musa Rajekshah encouraged young people to pursue careers in agriculture, as the agricultural sector is a key sector in Indonesia, and young people should continue to innovate and develop.

"I hope the faculty of agriculture will grow farmers who have high innovation creativity and can lift the economy of a certain thing," he said.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Dies Natalis
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara