MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Tanoto Scholars Gathering, USU Rector: Campus Adaptation To Face Future Challenges
Tanoto Scholars Gathering, USU Rector: Campus Adaptation to Face Future Challenges
Published At
08 September 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Tanoto Scholars Gathering, USU Rector: Campus Adaptation to Face Future Challenges
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 08 September 2021

USU PUBLIC RELATIONS – MEDAN: Attending the 2021 Tanoto Scholars Gathering (TSG) event, the Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Dr. Muryanto Amin S.Sos., M.Si., conveyed how campuses must adapt in facing challenges. Through the online meeting on Wednesday (9/1/2021), he explained the challenges that will be faced by the campus world in the future.

Muryanto Amin explained that campuses must carry out a series of strategies to adapt to the development of the information technology era. According to him, there needs to be a fundamental transformation and revolution in the world of higher education.

“At least there are some things that we have to transform and revolutionize in facing the development of today's world of technology. Transformation of structure, accreditation, teaching, and learning are the main keys to adapting in the world of technology. Campuses must be flexible and follow the times," the USU Rector said.

On that occasion, Muryanto Amin explained that current technological developments are growing rapidly. He conveyed that how Artificial Intelligence became an inevitable innovation at this time.

"Currently campuses must be able to create students who have self-quality and skills, because then we will see many things become Automation, which means that all human work is assisted by machines, so that some things have been done automatically," said the USU Rector.

He said that in the future Automation will replace the role of humans a lot. He said many jobs have now been replaced by machines. Muryanto takes the example of Tesla, which has issued a driverless car innovation, so it is possible that the driver profession will lose its job.

“Tesla has released a car without a driver, as well as buses that don't need a driver. So we can conclude that in the next 20 years, many jobs will be lost, on the contrary, many jobs will also appear in this new era,” Muryanto said.

He said that currently work as data and information analysis is a promising job. With the rapid development of information technology, work on data processing, cyber security, and digital marketing has colored the development of information technology. Therefore, students are expected to see this opportunity.

The Minister of Education, Culture, Research and Technology of the Republic of Indonesia, Nadiem Anwar Makarim, who was also present at the activity, said that students must have a global perspective. Technological advances have opened up barriers between countries so that communication can be carried out without boundaries.

“Students should have a global perspective. That's why we at the Ministry want these students to leave, get new experiences in new places, so that they have a global perspective. Because in the future, their rivals will not only be on campus or around them, but their rivals will already exist at the global level,” Nadiem said.

Nadiem believes that the problems of Sustainable Development Goals, Climate Change, and a series of other global problems should have become the attention of Indonesian students . He advised students to be open to existing differences, and to create a sense of pride in Indonesia and openness to the global world. (RR/©ULC)

 

 

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Rizki Hakim Lubis - PR

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara