MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Agriculture
Undergraduate Program In Aquatic Resources Management
Undergraduate Program
Aquatic Resources Management
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Undergraduate Program in Aquatic Resources Management is a study program that aims to provide an in-depth understanding of aquatic resources management as well as the related sciences of managing, conserving and utilizing aquatic resources such as rivers, lakes, seas and other waters. The main focus is to develop sustainable strategies to ensure adequate availability of aquatic resources for current and future needs, maintaining ecological balance while meeting human needs.

Through an interactive learning process supervised by competent faculty, this study program is committed to realizing its vision and mission in equipping students with the skills needed in the field being taught. Graduates of the Undergraduate Program in Aquatic Resources Management have extensive career opportunities in various sectors, including research, management, entrepreneurship, and so on. Upon completion of this study program, students will obtain a Bachelor of Fisheries (S.Pi.) degree.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

mspusu@usu.ac.id

Undergraduate Program in Aquatic Resources Management

Accredited Very Good

1707/SK/BAN-PT/Ak.KP/S/V/2023

Vision of Undergraduate Program in Aquatic Resources Management

To become a leading study program in Indonesia in 2025 by producing graduates with superior academic and professional abilities in the field of aquatic resource management and global competitiveness.

Mission of Undergraduate Program in Aquatic Resources Management

Industry 4.0

Organizing education that is able to produce competent graduates as managers, entrepreneurs, and extension workers in the field of aquatic resources and can implement the MBKM program which emphasizes student competence to face the job market in industry 4.0.

Research

Organizing research in the field of aquatic resource management to utilize and manage the potential of North Sumatra's local aquatic resources in a sustainable manner.

Community Service

Developing research results in the field of aquatic resource management in community service activities.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Aquatic Resource Management

Fisheries Resource Management

Biotechnology and Aquaculture

Contact Us
Undergraduate Program in Aquatic Resources Management
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Prof A. Sofyan No.3 Kampus USU Medan 20155

+62 618213181

mspusu@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara