MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Library 36th Anniversary Celebration
USU Library 36th Anniversary Celebration
Published At
18 December 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Library 36th Anniversary Celebration
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 18 December 2023

What has been achieved is by the library's strategic plan for 2020-2024, the achievements of our performance are all successful by the work program as well as the budget absorption reaching 95%, currently ranked first at USU, "said Laila as Chairperson of USU Library.

USU PR - Library of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held its 36th Anniversary celebration, with the theme "Create Creativity Through USU Library". The event was held in the Open Reading Room on the 1st Floor of the USU Library on Tuesday (28/11/2023).

The event was attended by the Chairperson and Secretary of the USU Board of Trustees, the USU Rector represented by the USU Vice Rector 2, the Secretary of the University, the USU Vice Rectors, the Chairperson of the Board of Professors, the Chairperson of the Academic Senate, the Directors of Directorates within USU, the Heads of Institutions and Agencies, the Deans of Faculties and the Director of the Graduate School, the President Director of the USU Hospital Prof. Dr. Chairuddin Panusunan Lubis, the Regional Head of Pegadaian Regional Office 1 Medan, the Head of the Central Statistics Agency of North Sumatra Province, and other invitees.

In her remarks, the Chairperson of the USU Library, Laila Hadri Nasution, S.Sos., M.P conveyed related developments and annual achievements of the USU library with the 2020 to 2024 strategic plan. Performance achievements are generally in the successful category. Overall, the average performance indicator realization achievement is 98% to date with a budget absorption of 95.5% in the first rank.

"What has been achieved is by the library's strategic plan for 2020-2024, the achievements of our performance are all successful by the work program as well as the absorption of the budget reaching 95%, currently ranking first also at USU" said Laila as Chairperson of the USU Library.

As for several goals that have been achieved by the USU Library in 2023, three of them are building a strong library staff commitment to realizing the vision and mission of the university and library by building a work culture that supports collaboration, innovation, and mutual achievement, supporting the educational and teaching functions, research, and service to the USU community by identifying, processing, and making library materials available by paying attention to the factors of relevance, sophistication, balance, and maintenance by the Tri Dharma of Higher Education, and providing effective and efficient library services by utilizing developments in the fields of technology, information, and communication.

This was also conveyed by the USU Rector represented by Vice Rector 2, Muhammad Arifin Nasution, S.Sos., M.SP, in his speech, stating that in the current era of disruption, libraries must continue to maximize collaboration with other institutions and organizations, to expand access to digital resources, facilitate information exchange, and support innovative projects. These roles show that libraries are not only adapting to technological changes, but also playing a strategic role in facilitating learning, research, and access to knowledge in the digitalization era.

"Libraries should maximize collaboration with other institutions to expand access to digital resources, as facilitators of information exchange, and support innovative projects. This shows that libraries not only adapt to technological changes, but also play a strategic role in facilitating learning, research, and knowledge in the digitalization era," said Muhammad Arifin Nasution, USU Vice Rector 2.

On the other hand, the library already has an information system called LiBas, the availability of 14 branches that are integrated into the university library, the utilization of lockers that are integrated with the system, the provision of 5 individual reading rooms, the availability of the Usulib mobile application, online article ordering, online submission of final assignments, automatic membership activation, and journal access that can use the USU proxy.

Furthermore, Muhammad Arif Nasution also emphasized that this anniversary is not just a birthday celebration, but a momentum to reflect on the important role of libraries in supporting the Tridharma mission, especially education and research in the university environment. The library is one of the proud public service facilities at Universitas Sumatera Utara, a place where knowledge is preserved, enriched, and disseminated, and is aligned with the development of the latest technological and information advances.

Talking about the theme, namely "Create Creativity Through USU Library". The anniversary celebration of the USU Library held an infographic competition for students, which is one of the purposes of creating creativity. In addition, the friendly atmosphere of the library makes students more creative after coming to the library.

In her interview, the Head of USU Library, Laila Hadri admitted that there are many dreams in supporting USU's vision and mission that have not yet been achieved, one of which is the provision of a branch library for the Faculty of Forestry. She also hopes that next year it can be realized and other achievements by USU's work program.

"What has not been achieved is a lot, a lot of dreams to support USU. The urgent one is the provision of a branch library for the Faculty of Forestry. We hope that next year it will be realized. And other achievements by the USU work program," said Laila.

Deputy Library of USU, Sundari, S.Sos., M.Si also added that the breakthrough that will be implemented by the USU Library is the utilization of technology, communication, and information so that everything can be integrated, in a one-stop library, meaning that the library can get everything. In addition, there is a development plan based on user proposals that provides positive value for the USU library.

"Breakthroughs that will be implemented: related to the use of technology, communication, and information because we hope that everything is integrated, in a one-stop library, in a library we can get everything, if for development because there are so many proposals from users, and alhamdulillah to this day we continue to get positive assessments," concluded Sundari.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Dies Natalis
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara