MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Hosts Indonesia Research Summit 2025 To Strengthen International Research
USU Hosts Indonesia Research Summit 2025 to Strengthen International Research
Published At
01 March 2025
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Hosts Indonesia Research Summit 2025 to Strengthen International Research
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Saturday, 01 March 2025

“Universities must become centers of innovation that provide solutions for society. Academic research must be able to answer global challenges such as food security, green economy, and sustainable technology development,” said Prof. Muryanto.

 

Public Relations USU - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) emphasized its role in the global academic world by hosting the Indonesia Research Summit 2.0. In collaboration with Editage, part of Cactus Communications, this forum presents academics and researchers from various national and international institutions. The activities were closed with a Gala Dinner session at the USU DLCB Building 1st Floor, on Thursday (28/02/2025).

 

As one of the best universities in Indonesia based on QS Ranking, USU continues to strengthen global collaboration and improve the quality of scientific publications. This event is a strategic step in strengthening research innovation and building wider academic networks.

 

With the theme “Innovating Academic Research: Pathways to Higher Impact Publications, Local Innovations, and Advancing Sustainable Development,” this event aims to encourage academic innovation and strengthen the sustainability-based research ecosystem.

 

USU Rector Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., emphasized that universities are central in supporting the Tri Dharma of Higher Education, especially in research and community service.

 

“Universities must become centers of innovation that provide solutions for society. Academic research must be able to answer global challenges such as food security, green economy, and sustainable technology development,” said Prof. Muryanto.

 

Indonesia Research Summit 2025 is a strategic platform in building cooperation between domestic and foreign academics. “This is very important for our international research collaboration,” said Prof. Mury.

Ruchi Chauhan, Head of Global Marketing Cactus Communications, appreciated USU's initiative to improve the quality of academic publications. She highlighted that more than 10,000 journals in Indonesia have been accredited by SINTA, signifying great potential that needs to be strengthened by global collaboration.

 

“By strengthening the quality of publications and academic reputation, universities in Indonesia will be increasingly taken into account in the international arena,” explained Ruchi Chauhan.

 

In line with that, USU Vice Rector III Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan, S.Si., M.Si., Apt. emphasized that USU will continue to support lecturers and students in improving the quality of academic publications through various capacity-building programs and international cooperation.

 

“Of course, this cooperation will continue. USU is committed to increasing the number of academic publications that have a broad impact at the global level,” said Prof. Poppy.

 

Meanwhile, Prof. Dr. Eng. Himsar Ambarita, ST, MT, Director of USU's Directorate of Internationalization and Global Partnerships, highlighted the importance of increasing the number of international research collaborations. Currently, only 15% of USU publications involve collaborations with overseas academics, and this figure is targeted to continue to increase.

 

“This is a strategic step to support the university's internationalization agenda,” he said.

 

The Indonesia Research Summit 2025 also highlighted how research can support the vision of a Golden Indonesia 2045. With the synergy between academia, industry, and government, research is expected to be the main motor in creating sustainable innovations that impact national development.

 

The successful organization of the Indonesia Research Summit 2025 proves USU's commitment to strengthening the research ecosystem, improving the quality of academic publications, and strengthening its position as an international standard research institution.

 

News
SDGs
SDGs 8
SDGs 9
SDGs 17
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara