MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Campus Life
City Tour Of Medan
Rahmat International Wildlife Museum & Gallery
Rahmat International Wildlife Museum & Gallery

Rahmat International Wildlife Museum & Gallery

Rahmat International Wildlife Museum and Gallery is a unique museum that presents a collection of perfectly preserved animals worldwide. The museum will mesmerize visitors with thousands of animals that look alive and real as if they were in their natural habitat. These preserved animals are stars that have died naturally, resulting from legalized hunting and donations from institutions and collectors. Once inside the museum, visitors are taken through the entire collection with the guidance of a knowledgeable guide. Interestingly, the collections at the museum follow world standards in the conservation and utilization of natural resources. This aims to prevent extinction and increase wildlife populations in their natural habitat. Visitors can see animals from all over the world, as the museum houses a diverse collection of wildlife. More than 2,600 species and 5,600 specimens, both large and small, are artfully arranged in refrigerated rooms that maintain proper humidity. The Rahmat International Wildlife Museum and Gallery has three floors with the collection arrangement following the animals' native habitat. Visitors can first-hand witness the preserved endangered animals by explaining their species and origin. Rahmat Shah, a conservationist passionate about nature and adventures worldwide, founded the museum. He was the first Indonesian to receive international awards and recognition in hunting. Most of the collections in the museum were collected through official hunting activities. Rahmat International Wildlife Museum and Gallery not only exhibits preserved animals from around the world but also provides various other facilities that visitors can enjoy. These include a library containing information on numerous species of animals and their habitats from multiple countries, as well as various souvenirs unique to this museum. There is also a Hunters Cafe with audiovisuals informing about conservation hunting, a photo studio with professional photographers, and a multipurpose room that can be utilized for various purposes. The museum was established on May 14, 1991, and is the first and only museum in the world to feature all preserved animals in a display that depicts their natural habitat.

Other Information

The Rahmat International Wildlife Museum and Gallery features a collection of perfectly preserved animals from around the world. There are more than 2,600 species and 5,600 specimens on display, as well as various other facilities provided.

Jl. S. Parman No. 309, Petisah Hulu, Medan Baru Sub-district, Medan City, North Sumatera, 20152
Locals : IDR75,000 (Free Snack) — Students: IDR25,000 (25 people minimal) — Tourist: IDR150,000
Every Day at 09:00–17:00 WIB

Other Tourisms

Other Tourisms

Aksara Park

A nightlife wonderland with unmissable culinary and amusement rides

Katamso Land

An Up-to-date Market with an Unforgettable Culinary and Entertainment Experience

Tjong Yong Hian Garden

Tjong Yong Hian Park, A Precious Heritage of Tjong Yong Hian in Medan with an Alluring Chinese Style Charm

Indonesian Plantation Museum

Let's Uncover the Glorious History and Wealth of Indonesian Plantations at the Indonesian Plantation Museum

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara