MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Vocational Education
Diploma Program In Japanese Language Study
Diploma Program
Japanese Language Study
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Established in 1987, the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Diploma Program in Japanese Language Study is a program responsible for vocational education exploring Japanese studies.

The Diploma Program in Japanese Language Study collaborates with the Indonesian Association for Japanese Language Education (GAKKAI) and the Indonesian Association for Japanese Studies (ASJI) to organize workshops and seminars to help students explore the Japanese language. Supported by outstanding teaching staff and supported by adequate facilities, infrastructure, and media, our study program is firmly committed to producing graduates who are reliable and competent in communicating using Japanese in the fields of education, business/office, tourism, and the world of translation to compete globally and be able to create job opportunities.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

dipl-jepang@usu.ac.id

Diploma Program in Japanese Language Study

Accredited Very Good

2490/SK/BAN-PT/Ak.KP/D3/VI/2023,

Vision of Diploma Program in Japanese Language Study

Becoming a Japanese Language Study Center that produces superior and competent resources in their fields, based on the BINTANG values (Bertakwa, INovatif, TANGguh dan arif).

Mission of Diploma Program in Japanese Language Study

BINTANG Values

Organizing learning activities in the field of Japanese language professionally based on the BINTANG value system (Bertakwa, INovatif, TANGguh dan arif).

Research

Conducting research that is oriented towards improving Japanese language knowledge.

Devotion to Community

Carrying out community service that is oriented towards improving the welfare of the community.

Collaboration

Establishing cooperation with domestic and foreign institutions in the field of Japanese language based on the principles of justice, equality, and sustainability.

Professional Graduates

Producing graduates who are excellent and competent in communicating using Japanese in the fields of business, tourism, and translation, and have an entrepreneurial spirit that upholds ethical and moral values.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Business Japanese Language

Tourism Japanese Language

Japanese Language Translation

Contact Us
Diploma Program in Japanese Language Study
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jalan Bioteknologi No.2 Kampus USU Medan 20155

(+62)-618215596

dipl-jepang@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara