MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Receives UPI Visit, Discusses Statute And Collaboration
USU Receives UPI Visit, Discusses Statute and Collaboration
Published At
04 March 2024
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Receives UPI Visit, Discusses Statute and Collaboration
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 04 March 2024

“We hope there are one or two activities that we can do, cooperation in the field of education, for example, regarding learning or collaborative research that we might be able to do,” explained Prof. Muryanto.

USU PR—The Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si welcomed a visit from the University of Education Indonesia (UPI) in the context of the preparation of an academic study on the development of the UPI Statute. The meeting occurred in the Academic Senate Meeting Room, 2nd Floor, USU Central Administration Bureau Building, on Friday (03/01/2024).

This meeting examined various academic aspects relevant to the UPI statute's development. Academics and representatives from both universities were actively involved in discussions to evaluate concrete steps that can be implemented to strengthen cooperation and improve World Class University (WCU).

Coming from a similar background, USU Rector, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., also highlighted the need for further cooperation, which will provide significant benefits. Forms of collaboration include international service-learning programs, collaborative research, and various other initiatives, which are expected to provide students with a more diverse and quality educational experience.

“We hope there are one or two activities that we can do, cooperation in the field of education, for example, regarding learning or collaborative research that we might be able to do,” explained Prof. Muryanto.

Responding to this, the Rector of UPI, Prof. Dr. H. M. Solehuddin, M.Pd., M.A., stated that the collaboration with USU will explore specific areas that will receive intensive attention. The focus is on making competent and relevant contributions to mutual development. In addition, the Rector of UPI also said that the cooperation also includes improvements to the statutes. After several years of running, changes and developments occur, and it is important for universities to respond to the challenges and needs that arise.

“Yes, later we will see what field of cooperation we can specifically and competently want, and it turns out that the spirit that we are currently doing is also the same content as the improvement of statutes,” explained Prof. Solehuddin.

The Rector of UPI added that his party hopes to have a more comprehensive statute, and they plan to learn from the experience of universities at the national and international levels, with USU being one of them. Collaboration and exchange of experiences between universities is expected to enrich the development of statutes to achieve high quality and governance standards.

“This collaboration is expected to bring positive impacts through the exchange of experiences and joint efforts towards improving the quality and governance of universities,” hoped Prof. Solehuddin.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Public Relations

Interviewee: Prof. Muryanto Amin - USU Rector

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Public Relations

News
SDGs
SDGs 16
Collaboration
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara