MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Social Science And Political Science
Undergraduate Program In Social Anthropology
Undergraduate Program
Social Anthropology
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Established in 1986, the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Undergraduate Program in Social Anthropology is a study program that focuses on applying classical and contemporary anthropological theories, concepts, and methods.

Students are taught to have sensitivity and willingness to overcome anthropological problems in society, such as poverty, climate change, social conflict, and marginalized communities, with the assistance of exceptional lecturers who are highly educated and nationally certified. Graduates can pursue careers as ethnographers with specifications as young researchers, consultants, community developers, entrepreneurial activists, and cultural bureaucrats or inspirers of cultural promotion.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

fisip@usu.ac.id

Undergraduate Program in Social Anthropology

Accredited Excellent

No. 74/SK/BAN-PT/Ak.Ppj/SI/I/2023

Vision of Undergraduate Program in Social Anthropology

To become a study program with academic excellence in knowledge of the Sumatran society's local and hybrid cultures that can compete globally in 2021.

Mission of Undergraduate Program in Social Anthropology

Theory

Developing education to produce scholars who understand and can use classical and contemporary anthropological ideas, concepts, and methods to analyze traditional/national and modern sociocultural phenomena.

Excellence Undergraduate

Producing scholars who excel, have critical insight, and have the ability to understand classical and contemporary anthropological theories, concepts, and methods.

Anthropogical Methods

Producing scholars who can use anthropological theories, concepts, and methods that can be applied in examining the socio-cultural phenomena of ethnicity in Sumatra and Southeast Asia in the process of globalization.

Professional

Producing scholars with a professional spirit and universal human values in analyzing power relations between socio-cultural groups in society.

Creativity

Producing graduates who can develop their creativity and expertise in assisting and empowering civil society and commodifying culture.

Research

Carry out research with an anthropological approach on traditional/national, transnational, and contemporary societies and cultures in the Sumatra and Southeast Asia region for academic and practical purposes.

Critical

Producing research with an anthropological approach sensitive to ethnicity, religion, aesthetics, local wisdom, ecology, organizational culture, tourism, gender (women and children), health, education, economy, law, and politics.

Documentary

Produce written and multi-media documentary research on traditional and contemporary ethnic life in Sumatra and Southeast Asia.

Enthography

Produce ethnographic research on ethnic communities in the context of globalization in various fields of contemporary society.

Journal

Produce research papers and theoretical, and conceptual thoughts in reputable national and international journals.

Community Service

Carrying out community service with an anthropological approach to form and strengthen civil society in Indonesia.

Empathy

Produce scholars who are sensitive and willing to address issues related to poverty, environmental degradation, social conflict, minorities, and marginalized communities.

Organizing Action

Producing scholars with the willingness and willingness to be involved in organizing actions and mentoring to empower civil society.

Collaboration

Collaborate with the community and related agencies and institutions to maintain, preserve, and develop wise traditional cultural heritage, both in the ideational, activity, and artifact fields in the Sumatra and Southeast Asia regions.

Publications

Increase lecturer publications in reputable national and international journals.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Contact Us
Undergraduate Program in Social Anthropology
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Dr. A. Sofian No. 1A Kampus USU Padang Bulan, Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20155

(+62)-618211965

fisip@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara