MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
61st Anniversary, USU FEB Holds Scientific Oration
61st Anniversary, USU FEB Holds Scientific Oration
Published At
16 December 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
61st Anniversary, USU FEB Holds Scientific Oration
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 16 December 2022

Deputy Rector IV for Information, Planning and Development Prof. Dr. Opim Salim Sitompul, M.Sc, said that with a long age span, USU's FEB is one of the favorite faculties and majors that are popular and in demand by many people. And is expected to become a leading institution in its field and become a reference for science and technology and innovation in the economic and business fields.

USU Public Relations - Commemorating the 61st Anniversary of the Faculty of Economics and Business (FEB) of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held a scientific oration. On Friday (11/25/2022) in the USU FEB Hall marked the start of the 61st Anniversary of FEB USU.

The celebration of the 61st Anniversary of FEB USU carries the theme "Collaboration Towards Internationalization".

Deputy Rector IV for Information, Planning and Development Prof. Dr. Opim Salim Sitompul, M.Sc, said that with a long age span, USU FEB is one of the favorite faculties and majors that are popular and in demand by many people. And is expected to become a leading institution in its field and become a reference for science and technology and innovation in the economic and business fields.

"Why is science and technology needed? Yes, because to run the economy and business requires sophisticated technology," he said.

Prof. Opim said that for the past 61 years, USU's FEB has been proven to produce the best graduates in their fields, and can see the existence of a number of practitioners both nationally and internationally. With this in mind, the public can always trust USU's FEB as a faculty of interest, and USU's FEB can continue to accelerate its movement and steps to build programs that support sustainable development in synergy with stakeholders, the industrial world, the business world, and policy makers.

"That will later be useful for FEB students to find jobs, because now everyone is competing to be able to work in a good industrial world," he concluded.

USU FEB Dean Dr Fadli, SE, M Si. said that in order to interpret the 61st Anniversary, it adopted the theme from the university for internationalization, namely collaboration towards internationalization, so that Human Resources (HR) at USU's FEB must be improved, especially young lecturers, and to answer problems from HR, FEB created a program namely the future development program, in which young lecturers must continue their doctoral studies abroad.

This is not only to gain knowledge but to establish networking as encouraged by the Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara, namely Dr. Murnyanto Amin., S.Sos., M.Sc.

"The Rector is doing a lot of cooperation both domestically and abroad, yes, we, as part of USU, are helping the program that the Rector is running," USU FEB Dean concluded.

The Dean of FEB also said that after the successful improvement of facilities and infrastructure within FEB, he would then pursue programs in the field of HR, because HR was competent and dynamic. the resulting students will be more competitive in the world of work.

"The hope is that FEB can collaborate not only internally but also externally to produce innovative products," he said.

Head of the Anniversary Committee Windi Astuti, S.E.,M.Sc. said that raising the theme of collaboration towards internationalization was a form of FEB's support for universities to reach 500 World Class Universities.

"My hope is that in the future USU's FEB will be more successful and more successful," she said.

The series of anniversary events begins with scientific orations, and on Saturday-Sunday (11/26-27/2022) there will be competitions, fun walks and bazaars. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Dies Natalis
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara