MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Inaugurates 2,602 Graduates, Rector Emphasizes The Importance Of Digital Culture
USU Inaugurates 2,602 Graduates, Rector Emphasizes the Importance of Digital Culture
Published At
09 December 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
USU Inaugurates 2,602 Graduates, Rector Emphasizes the Importance of Digital Culture
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Monday, 09 December 2024

“Technology is just a tool. However, behind the sophistication of existing innovations, human values such as integrity and empathy must remain a guide. We are proud to release you as USU alumni who are ready to contribute at the global level,” said the Rector.

USU PR - The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held the Graduation Procession for Period I of the 2024/2025 Academic Year which took place at the USU Auditorium on Thursday and Friday (28-29/11/2024).

 

This graduation carries the theme “Understanding Digital Culture in the Global Industry,” which emphasizes the importance of graduates understanding digital culture to face the dynamics of change in the era of technological transformation.

 

USU Rector, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., in his speech congratulated the graduates on their success in completing their studies. He also reminded them of the importance of digital skills and the values of empathetic leadership, integrity, and cooperation as the foundation of a professional career that has a positive impact.

 

“Technology is just a tool. However, behind the sophistication of existing innovations, human values such as integrity and empathy must remain a guide. We are proud to release you as USU alumni who are ready to contribute at the global level,” said the Rector.

 

A total of 2,602 graduates from various levels of education graduated in this period, including 337 graduates with Cumlaude predicate. One of the best graduates was Rayyana Dario Silva from the Library and Information Science Study Program with a GPA of 3.96 and a study period of 3 years and 9 months.

 

The total number of USU alumni has now reached 263,279 people, making this university one of the largest higher education institutions in Sumatra that continues to produce highly competitive graduates.

 

Adityas Agung Ramadan, a graduate of the Sociology Study Program, shared his inspiring experiences as a student. Adit, who is active in campus organizations, advised students to join organizational activities as a way to develop themselves and build relationships.

 

“Organizations are important for building relationships and developing yourself. Organization administrators should also be more proactive in approaching new students, for example through social media, so that more are interested,” he said.

 

Adit also shared study tips for students, such as joining study groups and connecting with ambitious friends. “Ambitious friends can motivate us to achieve our targets, including cum laude. Off-campus study groups also help add skills,” he added.

 

In his speech, the Rector emphasized USU's commitment to continuously improve the quality of education and compete at the international level. With a vision to become a World Class University, USU focuses on innovation, interdisciplinary collaboration, and adaptation to global change.

 

In an effort to support this vision, USU offers excellent programs such as the Master's Education Towards Doctorates for Superior Scholars (PMDSU) which is fully funded by the government. This program has graduated students with high academic achievement and international publications.

 

This graduation ceremony is an important milestone for USU graduates to step into the future with the provision of a productive digital culture. The Rector hopes that the alumni will be able to face the challenges of the digital era while upholding human values.

News
Headline
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara