MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Center For Cultural And Ethnic Studies Discusses Conflict Prevention
USU Center for Cultural and Ethnic Studies Discusses Conflict Prevention
Published At
10 December 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Center for Cultural and Ethnic Studies Discusses Conflict Prevention
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 10 December 2021

Ketua Pusat Kajian Kebudayaan dan Etnik Prof. Dr. Budi Agustono mengatakan, persoalan konflik etnik menjadi peran sentral formasi politik di Indonesia, terutama terkait dengan gejolak politik sosial dan ekonomi yang berlangsung akhir tahun 1990-an.

USU PR - Center for Cultural and Ethnic Studies, Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held a discussion entitled "The Role of Citizen Associations in Prevention of Ethnic Conflict" as an effort to find policy proposals and resolve ethnic conflicts. The discussion was held through a zoom meeting, Thursday (09/12/2021).

Head of the Center for Cultural and Ethnic Studies Prof. Dr. Budi Agustono said that the issue of ethnic conflict played a central role in political formation in Indonesia, especially related to the social and economic political turmoil that took place in the late 1990s.

“For example, the formation of the New Order power, which at that time was experiencing political frailty, caused ethnic conflicts here and there. Especially in Indonesian satellite cities, such as Ambon, Poso, Sambas, Pontianak, and so on,” said Prof. Budi.

According to Prof. Budi, when politics happen along with such a high escalation, there is a lineization and community participation in conflict resolution. This is represented by the presence of citizen associations.

"This is important to see how citizens initiate peace and reduce conflict escalation," he said, sparking a discussion.

On this occasion, the Chairman of the National Human Rights Commission of the Republic of Indonesia, Ahmad Taufan Damanik, M.A. said that it was true that there was no longer any ethnicity problem in North Sumatra. According to him, Medan has a high modality, namely egalitarian principles.

"I was very impressed with the call 'bung' in Medan around 1950. It indicated the marriage of all ethnicities, a calling that binds all. Not only inter-ethnic ties, but also inter-religious and inter-class ties," explained the Head of Komnas HAM.

Ahmad Taufan added, that principle has been built since the beginning. Although Medan is a Malay area with a majority of Javanese ethnicity, but no group dominates each other.

"All parties have a big role, characterizing a large modality," he said.

According to Ahmad, the development of exclusive zones needs to be minimized to prevent ethnic conflicts, such as the existence of special housing for certain identities.

"We need to build more common spaces, Merdeka Square can be directed to become a shared space, for example by holding cultural events that can be accessed by all parties," he continued.

The chairman of Komnas HAM also appreciated the USU Center for Cultural and Ethnic Studies. He hopes that this study center can be involved in policy making and problem solving.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Management
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara