MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Civil Engineering USU Strengthens Relations Through Alumni Gathering
Civil Engineering USU Strengthens Relations Through Alumni Gathering
Published At
19 February 2024
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Civil Engineering USU Strengthens Relations Through Alumni Gathering
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 19 February 2024

We hope that this year, the Faculty of Engineering, especially Civil Engineering, can achieve the highest rating for employee reputation with a target of 15%," Tigor hoped.

USU PR– The Civil Engineering Program of the Faculty of Engineering (FT) at Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) enhances harmony by organizing an Alumni Gathering, which took place at the Adi Mulia Hotel Medan. On Saturday (Jan. 21, 2024).

Deputy Dean III of FT USU, Ir. Nismah Panjaitan, S.T., M.T., Ph.D., IPU., ASEAN Eng, expressed full support for the Civil Engineering Alumni Gathering. As part of the deanery, her hope is that alumni actively participate in the QS survey. Because the participation of Civil Engineering alumni in the employer reputation survey has a significant impact, aiming to increase from 6% to 15%. At least 10% of this assessment can come from the Faculty of Engineering.

"We hope that this year, the Faculty of Engineering, especially Civil Engineering, can achieve the highest rating for employee reputation with a target of 15%," Tigor hoped.

In line with that, Ulfi Andayani, S.Kom., M.Kom., as the Manager of Tracer Study Alumni Relations and Student Welfare, expressed full support for the program activities of the Directorate of Internationalization and Global Partnership. The main focus is on improving the World Class University (WCU) ranking through employer reputation surveys.

"Of course, I, representing the Directorate of Student Achievement and Alumni Relations, fully support the holding of this alumni gathering," said Ulfi.

Ulfi Andayani, S.Kom, M.Kom. also explained that at this Alumni Gathering, the technical details of activities supporting alumni participation in answering questions from the WCU committee would be discussed. Thus, this activity can strengthen the role of alumni in enhancing the university's reputation and ranking, both nationally and internationally.

"The activity itself will be carried out as soon as possible in the near future. Surely, it may be in the next 1-2 months for the ranking period," explained Ulfi.

Dr. M. Ridwan Anas S.T., M.T., Head of the Civil Engineering Department at USU, conveyed that alumni play a significant role in the implementation of Independent Learning and Campus Merdeka (MBKM) as well as the accreditation process and the improvement of study program assessments.

"For accreditation itself, alumni also have a significant influence on the improvement of the learning process and building partnerships," said Dr. Ridwan.

Ir. Malik Assalih Harahap S.T., M.M., IPM, as the Secretary-General of the USU Civil Engineering Alumni Association (IKATSI), emphasized the importance of the alumni's role in understanding issues at the university, especially in Civil Engineering at USU. Alumni are considered essential for the progress of Civil Engineering at USU and contribute to the accreditation improvement. The more successful alumni, the better the promotion and branding at the national and international levels.

"I would like to express my gratitude for the implementation of this alumni gathering. So there is collaboration between alumni and the alma mater of the Faculty of Engineering and the Civil Engineering Department at USU," said Ir. Malik.

Lastly, Ir. Malik Assalih Harahap S.T., M.M., IPM, along with alumni, has formulated a new work program in a work meeting at the Polonia Hotel. One of them is mapping the presence of Civil Engineering alumni at USU to strengthen branding and promotion in the job market. Also, support for financial aspects, ideas, and laboratory development, as an effort to increase alumni contributions to the alma mater.

"We, the Alumni Association, have recently created a work program starting from 2023-2027, especially we have mapped our alumni from the 1969-2019 cohorts," explained Ir. Malik.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
SDGs 11
SDGs
SDGs 8
SDGs 9
Alumni & Career
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara