MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
29 Internists At USU Medical Faculty Inaugurated
29 Internists at USU Medical Faculty Inaugurated
Published At
04 August 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
29 Internists at USU Medical Faculty Inaugurated
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 04 August 2022

At the event, as many as 29 internal medicine specialists (internists) were inaugurated. In his remarks, USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin S.Sos., M.Si., congratulated and gave support to 29 internists who were able to serve the community and contribute to the advancement of science.

PR USU - Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty of Medicine (FK) Unversitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held an Inauguration and Introduction of the New Specialist Doctor of Internal Medicine Education Program (PPDS). The event was held at the Tiara International Convention Center on Sunday, (7/24/2022).

At the event, as many as 29 internal medicine specialists (internists) were inaugurated. In his remarks, USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin S.Sos., M.Si. congratulated and gave support to 29 internists who were able to serve the community and contribute to the advancement of science.

"You have formally received the placement of an internal medicine specialist, so this is a thanksgiving as well as a prayer for those present today and we can both provide support to all of you in order to become doctors for the field of internal medicine specialists," said the USU Rector.

The Rector added that USU's FK played a role in the internationalization of USU, this was based on the reputation and alumni of USU. If the reputation and alumni of USU can be taken into account by the community, this will be part of the support for the internationalization process.

"This is a matter of reputation, so the reputation of USU alumni is used by the community by the industry, so this is part of our support to go there," he said.

Vice Dean III of USU Medical Faculty dr. Inke Nadia Diniyanti Lubis, M.Ked(Ped), Sp.A, Ph.D said that the inaugurated graduates not only work as specialists in the clinical field, but can also be involved in other activities such as organization, hospital management, stakeholders and contribute to their alma mater.

"We hope that these graduates will not only work as specialist doctors who work in the clinical field but can also participate in other activities," dr. Inke said.

Doctor Inke has special hopes for the newly appointed internists to be willing to go to remote areas to help solve problems and improve existing facilities.

This is due to the small number of internal medicine specialists in Indonesia, which is only 3 thousand, while according to Doctor Inke, at least 20 thousand internists are needed in Indonesia.

"There are indeed still few internal medicine specialists in Indonesia, we need at least 20 thousand internal medicine specialists and currently there are only 3 thousand so it is really needed, especially in remote areas," she explained. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Education
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara