MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Department Of Radiology FK USU Conferral Of Specialist Marks And Introduction Of New PPDS
Department of Radiology FK USU Conferral of Specialist Marks and Introduction of New PPDS
Published At
23 February 2025
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Department of Radiology FK USU Conferral of Specialist Marks and Introduction of New PPDS
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Sunday, 23 February 2025

“This moment is not only to provide formal evidence of expertise but also as a symbol of commitment to continue to learn and develop along with the development of radiology science,” explained Prof. Fidel.

 

Public Relations USU - The Department of Radiology, Faculty of Medicine, Universitas Sumatera Utara (FK USU) held a Specialist Marking Submission and Introduction of new Specialist Doctor Education Program (PPDS) Participants in the 3rd Floor Hall of the USU Faculty of Medicine on Thursday, (20/02/2025). This event is an important milestones for nine newly appointed radiology specialists and two new PPDS who will begin their academic journey.

 

The USU rector, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si, represented by the Secretary, Prof. Dr. Muhammad Fidel Ganis Siregar, M.Ked(OG), Sp.O.G, Subsp.F.E.R, congratulated the new radiology specialists and PPDS participants and expressed appreciation to all teaching staff for their dedication in guiding the graduates. The inauguration is a formal recognition of expertise and a symbol of commitment to continue learning and adapting to developments in radiology technology.

“This moment is not only to provide formal evidence of expertise but also as a symbol of commitment to continue to learn and develop along with the development of radiology science,” explained Prof. Fidel.

 

The Dean of FK USU, Prof. Dr. dr. Aldy Safruddin Rambe, Sp.S(K) represented by Dr. dr. Delyuzar, M.Ked(PA), Sp.PA(K), emphasized that the title of specialist carries great responsibility. He also reminded the specialists not to forget the services of their teachers and alma mater. Gratitude was also expressed to the Main Education Hospital, H. Adam Malik General Hospital, and all network hospitals for the cooperation that has been established so far.

“Today, the new radiology specialists have the authority but also a responsibility behind it,” he said.

 

Chairman of the Radiology Study Program of FK USU, dr. Dedy Dwi Putra, Sp.Rad, expressed his pride in the graduation of radiology specialists and emphasized the department's commitment in producing competent medical personnel and having a spirit of community service. 

“Hopefully, they can devote their knowledge, especially in public health services,” he said.

In line with that, the Chairperson of the Department of Radiology FK USU, Dr. dr. Elvita Rahmi Daulay, M.Ked (Rad), Sp.Rad (K) RI, emphasized the importance of radiology doctors' responsibility in using radiation equipment. She also hoped the Health Office could foster specialist doctors' becoming reliable professionals.

 

The Director of Prof. Dr. Chairuddin P. Lubis USU Hospital, Dr. dr. Hendry Salim Siregar, Sp.OG (K), represented by dr. Ivana Alona, MPH, Sp.KKLP, advised that specialist doctors always prioritize professionalism in accordance with their competencies and being careful and thorough in carrying out their duties to maintain the good name of FK USU. The Indonesian Doctors Association (IDI) Medan City Chairman, Dr. Ery Suhaymi, SH, MH, M.Ked (Surg), Sp.B, represented by Dr. dr. Muhammad Faridz Syahrian, MKM, AIFO-K, emphasized that this achievement is not the end, but the beginning of a more significant journey. Specialists are expected to continue their education to higher levels, such as consultant or doctoral programs, to deepen their knowledge and expertise.

 

The Head of Medan City Health Office, Iin Juliani Saragih, SKM, MKK, also emphasized that strengthening human resources, especially in the education and health sectors, is part of the Golden Indonesia 2045 vision. For this reason, synergy between the government, educational institutions, and the community is needed to realize this goal. FK USU is expected to continue to maintain and improve the quality of education to produce superior and competitive health workers.

 

With this inauguration, it is hoped that FK USU radiology specialists can continue to contribute to improving the quality of health services in Indonesia and bring positive changes to the world of medicine, especially in the field of radiology.

News
SDGs
SDGs 3
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara