MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Vocational Education
Diploma Program In Tax Administration
Diploma Program
Tax Administration
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Diploma Program in Tax Administration at the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) was established in 1995. It became a program under the Faculty of Vocational Education of USU, which is responsible for providing education on applied taxation science.

This study program is filled with lecturers who have broad insight and high integrity in the teaching process. It is supported by the best facilities and infrastructure to create a comfortable, effective, and efficient learning environment. The Diploma Program in Tax Administration offers three career concentration paths: assistant tax managers, internal tax auditors, and tax accounting staff. Students are expected to have competencies in tax planning, tax liability execution, tax control, and a deep understanding of relevant tax laws.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

admperpajakan@usu.ac.id

Diploma Program in Tax Administration

Accredited Very Good

648/DE/A.5/AR.10/VIII/2023

Vision of Diploma Program in Tax Administration

Becoming an International Standard Study Program with Local Excellence in Tax Administration that can Compete at the Global Level in 2026.

Mission of Diploma Program in Tax Administration

Education

Organize education in the field of Tax Administration based on Smart Digital Governance.

Globally Competitive

Empower the potential and build students' character to excel through a conducive academic climate to improve the quality of graduates of the Diploma III Tax Administration Study Program who are globally competitive.

Research

Conduct and develop research in the field of Tax Administration collaboratively and published in national and international journals.

Service

Carry out and develop community service in the field of inclusive Tax Administration.

Collaboration

Build local, national, and international cooperation networks to increase competitiveness and collaboration as well as the contribution of tax administration science at the regional, national, and international levels.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

National Tax Administration (Central)

Local Taxes and Regional Levies

Creativity and Innovation Program in Tax Administration

Contact Us
Diploma Program in Tax Administration
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jalan Bioteknologi No.2 Kampus USU Medan 20155

(+62)-618211965

admperpajakan@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara