MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Rector Awarded Outstanding Study Programs And Faculties In IKU 2020
USU Rector Awarded Outstanding Study Programs and Faculties in IKU 2020
Published At
06 January 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Rector Awarded Outstanding Study Programs and Faculties in IKU 2020
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 06 January 2022

"We will start the habit of working in accordance with the achievement targets by giving awards for those who achieve achievements, and warnings for those who are still far from the achievement targets," the USU Rector said.

USU PR - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) provides rewards for study programs and faculties that are the largest contributors to the achievement of Key Performance Indicators (KPI). The award was handed over at a routine morning rally in the courtyard of the USU Central Administration Building, Monday (12/27/2021).

USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin., S.Sos., M.Si., said the reward was USU's commitment to appreciate all the hard work and dedication given.

"We will start the habit of working in accordance with the achievement targets by giving awards for those who achieve achievements, and warnings for those who are still far from the achievement targets," he said.

He hopes that the awards given to the best IKU contributors can provide motivation for other faculties and study programs.

“Maintain that target to stay in the best performance vortex. For those who haven't, we hope that their hard work will be able to find solutions to the existing problems,” said Dr. Muryanto.

The Rector invited all academics to understand the KPI set by the Ministry of Education, Culture, Research and Technology (Kemendikbudristek) aimed at returning to their duties as lecturers and student functions.

"IKU aims to improve the quality of education and adjust the quality of university graduates to the standards and demands of the industrial world, as an absorber of labor and contribute to orientation at the hit-tech level, which currently has very advanced competition," explained the Rector.

According to him, KPI is a guideline that underlies all steps to achieve a product. From these indicators, work plans and budgets can be drawn up to strengthen productivity.

"We hope the work program targeting the IKU can show significant growth next year," he said.

He added, next year USU needs fresh new thinking to accommodate all changes in classrooms and changes in the use of technology. According to him, universities as institutions that produce human resources are required to adjust the learning process so that it is adaptive to the world of work and industry

"We can translate this complex task to support USU graduates in fulfilling the KPI," he concluded.

The following are the winners of the Most Contributor Rewards in IKU 2020 Achievement.

Categories of Study Programs with the Most Contributions to Student Achievement are

1. Undergraduate (S1) of Chemical Engineering Study Program,

2. Undergraduate (S1) of Medical Education Study Program

3. Undergraduate S1 Law Study Program

The Faculty Category with the Most Contributions of Lecturers in Off-Campus Activities is the Faculty of Medicine.

The Faculty Category with the Most Contributions to Lecturers with Doctoral Qualifications and Certificates of Competence is the Faculty of Forestry.

The Category of Study Programs with the Most Contributions of Lecturer Work Results/Outputs Used by the Community or Gaining International Recognition are

1. Industrial Engineering Study Program

2. Information Technology Study Program

3. Chemical Engineering Study Program

Categories of Study Programs That Have Collaboration with World Class Partners are

1. Undergraduate (S1) of Medical Education Study Program

2. Undergraduate (S1) of Industrial Engineering Study Program

3. Diploma 3 (D3) of Secretariat Study Program

Categories of Study Programs That Have International Accreditations are

1. Undergraduate (S1) of Chemical Engineering Study Program

2. Undergraduate (S1) of Mechanical Engineering Study Program

3. Undergraduate (S1) of Industrial Engineering Study Program

4. Undergraduate (S1) of Medical Education Study Program

(©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara