MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
HARDIKNAS 2022 Commemoration Ceremony At USU
HARDIKNAS 2022 Commemoration Ceremony at USU
Published At
23 May 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
HARDIKNAS 2022 Commemoration Ceremony at USU
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 23 May 2022

USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., said that the whole civitas existing academics at USU must maximize their duties as an educator. Like providing services to learners so that graduates can provide benefits to the country.

USU PR - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held a ceremony with traditional clothes in order to commemorate the National Education Day (HARDIKNAS) which packaged under the title “Lead Recovery, Move for Independent Learning”. The event took place in the courtyard of the USU central administrative bureau building on Friday, (5/13/2022). USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., said that the whole existing academic community at USU must maximize their duties as an educator. Like providing services to learners so that graduates can provide benefits to the country. "Maximizing his job as an educator, that's what he has to do. Provide services to learners so that graduates can be more beneficial to country of the Republic of Indonesia, "said the rector.

On that occasion, the rector who delivered the speech of the Minister of Education, Culture, Research and Technology (Mendikbud Ristek) Indonesia Nadiem Makarim mentions that this is the third year of the independent learning to visit curriculum the islands in Indonesia.

The curriculum began to be able to help teachers and students in times of pandemic and has been shown to reduce the impact of learning loss. “The Merdeka curriculum started to be able to help teachers and students in time The pandemic has been shown to reduce the impact of learning loss. This is the curriculum Merdeka has been implemented in more than 140 thousand education units throughout Indonesia," said the rector.

He also mentioned that the national assessment that is now used is material reflection so that teachers continue to be motivated to learn. In addition, to keep the principal motivated to improve the quality of schools and be free from the threat of the three great sins of education. "The national assessment that is now used is not intended to punish teachers or students but as a material of reflection so that teachers continue to be encouraged to learn. So obsessed motivated to improve the quality of his school to be more inclusive and free from the threat of the three great sins of Education.

In addition, there are interesting things in the HARDIKNAS ceremony this time, because of the participants including the USU rector wearing traditional clothes based on the information of the rector, in addition with the contents of the circular letter, wearing this traditional dress means that HARDIKNAS can remind everyone about cultural diversity.

“In accordance with the circular letter. This means to let us know and the National Education Day can be remembered that we actually have various diversity in tribes and that's why we have to use our traditional clothing in HARDIKNAS, "said the rector.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara