MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Cultural Science
Undergraduate Program In Historical Science
Undergraduate Program
Historical Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Undergraduate Program in Historical Science of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) was established in 1968. Since then, the program has produced many outstanding students and influential historians throughout Indonesia. This study program's main focus is the study of past events in a broad context, encompassing geography, health, culture, economics, politics, arts, religion, and the military. Supported by lecturers who are experts and certified in the field of history and the use of an integrated curriculum, we are committed to providing an interactive education and learning experience to our students.

Our main goal is to produce the best individuals in the field of history who are competent and ready to compete on a national and international scale. Graduates of our study program have various career opportunities, including in universities, archival centers, museums, government agencies, or even as freelance writers.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

ilmusejarah@usu.ac.id

Undergraduate Program in Historical Science

Accredited Baik Sekali

No. 1347/SK/BAN-PT/Ak.KP/S/IV/2023

Vision of Undergraduate Program in Historical Science

To become a Historical Science Study Program that is reputable in the cultural and ethnic history of Indonesia, particularly in pluralism, culture, and ethnicity.

Mission of Undergraduate Program in Historical Science

Proficient Historians

To provide education and teaching to produce proficient historians in the study of the pluralistic, cultural, and ethnic history of Indonesia.

Research

To develop research activities in the cultural history of Indonesia, particularly in pluralism, culture, and ethnicity.

Community Service

To develop and implement community service activities to decipher and assist in strengthening cultural pluralism and multiculturalism as well as reducing potential ethnic tensions.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Regional History

Indonesian History

Local History

Contact Us
Undergraduate Program in Historical Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Universitas No.19, Padang Bulan, Kec. Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20155

(061) - 8215956

ilmusejarah@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara