MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Lecturer Workload Needs Much Improvement
Lecturer Workload Needs Much Improvement
Published At
27 July 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Lecturer Workload Needs Much Improvement
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 27 July 2023

As permanent lecturers, we have to perform three tasks: education, research publications, and community service, which must be updated regularly so that we do not forget and disregard the work reported, "said Prof. Mury.

USU PR - The Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, held a hearing on the Functional Position of Lecturers and Lecturer Workload Reporting (BKD). They are directly bringing in speakers from the Directorate General of Higher Education, Research and Technology of the Ministry of Education, Culture, Research, and Technology (Diktiristek) Dr. Mohammad Sofwan Effendi, M.Ed and Dr.Sofyan Tan as a Member of Commission X DPR RI. The activity occurred at the USU Digital Learning Centre Building on Thursday (20/07/2023).

USU’s Rector, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, conveyed that the discussion of this material is critical regarding the workload of lecturers, and the arrangement has much to be improved. Lecturers, in addition to having a Tri Darma function, also have additional functions, namely administrative functions. Therefore, USU, together with Diktiristek, will provide and make many new innovations to respond to changes that must be responded to adaptively.

"As permanent lecturers, we have to perform three tasks: education, research publications, and community service, which must be updated regularly so that we do not forget and disregard the work reported, "said Prof. Mury.

Dr. Sofyan Tan said that Diktiristek provides many indicators and innovations. In addition to evaluating the results of each lecturer's report, Diktiristek also provides scholarships for lecturers who want to continue their education. Through this, it is hoped that knowledge and mastery of the material, one of which is English, can be adapted and given to students.

"Strengthening the human resources (HR) of lecturers regarding welfare is very important to pay attention to, one of which is by looking at the results of the reports they work on and then evaluated, then the index of lecturers carrying out research and making journals also affects the strengthening of the welfare of lecturers,"

Dr. Muhammad Sofwan Effendi, M. Ed as Director General of Higher Education, Research, and Technology of the Ministry of Education, Culture, Research, and Technology (Diktiristek) said that currently, the Higher Education Ministry is carrying out a transformation of lecturers which includes 2 things, namely the transformation of career management and the transformation of lecturer governance.

These transformations will later be made in a lecturer policy with one flexible and simple rule.

"We are designing the Regulation of the Minister of Administrative Reform and Bureaucratic Reform of the Republic of Indonesia (Permenpan RB) on lecturers even though there is already PERMENPAN-1 on lecturers because the 2023’s PERMENPAN-1 regulates all functional positions, not only lecturers."

Dr. Muhammad Sofwan Effendi, M. Ed, also said he would launch a unification or integration system using a cloud system to avoid technical obstacles in August.

He also said that he would make innovations or regulations that would be more flexible, transparent, and accountable regarding promoting or promoting lecturer functional positions.

There will be a continuous refinement of the discussion regarding the perception of workload among lecturers until the end of the process. Lecturers must carry out several tasks, such as education, research, publication, and community service.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Management
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara