MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Inaugurates Pharmacy Laboratory, Rector Of USU: Reliance On Government Reduces
Inaugurates Pharmacy Laboratory, Rector of USU: Reliance on Government Reduces
Published At
24 February 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Inaugurates Pharmacy Laboratory, Rector of USU: Reliance on Government Reduces
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 24 February 2022

“PTN-BH did not get a budget for development. That's our own money. The government is slowly reducing our dependence on them. As a result, we must be able to manage income and expenses,” he said.

MEDAN-USU PR: The Rector of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Dr Muryanto Amin, S Sos, M Si, inaugurated the Analysis Laboratory of the Faculty of Pharmacy on Wednesday (23/02/2022). The inauguration was marked by the cutting of the ribbon and the signing of the inauguration inscription. The inauguration was held face-to-face by implementing strict health protocols to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Present on occasion were USU Vice-Rectors, University Secretaries, Deans, Deputy Deans, and students and lecturers within the Faculty of Pharmacy.

On that occasion, the Rector of USU said that development in legal entities was carried out independently. It is related to the government which will slowly reduce the dependence on legal entities for universities.

“PTN-BH did not get a budget for development. That's our own money. The government is slowly reducing our dependence on them. As a result, we must be able to manage income and expenses,” he said.

Muryanto Amin explained that one of the potentials that can be done to increase the opinion of universities is to increase student tuition fees proportionally. Universities can do calculations so that the application of tuition fees can benefit students and the college itself.

“Gradually, our dependence on the government is reduced. So we must be able to do financial management. The tuition fee is the largest providing input. So even if it goes up, it is proportional to the development that we will do. This tuition fee cannot be compared with non-PTN-BH universities,” he explained.

As is known, PTN-BH is a university that can determine its policy direction, including in financial management and organizational management. Therefore, PTN-BH is required to increase their income to meet operational needs.

"We are like the private sector sometimes because the government is no longer providing assistance. We are given more freedom to be able to manage our own finances. Only civil servants are paid by the government. The rest is the university itself. We get the largest portion from student tuition, around 60 percent," said Muryanto Amin.

He also explained that USU had implemented transparency in every aspect. It is to encourage university and faculty leaders to see the financial portion. So that leaders can prioritize policy directions.

“We also implement open financial management with university leaders. We will also share a percentage of our finances with faculties and institutions because some institutions have no income, such as the Research Institute and the Community Service Institute. They have a lot of needs, including providing incentives for lecturers who publish,” he said.

On that occasion, he conveyed that development within USU had become his priority after being appointed Chancellor. He said that infrastructure is one of the important assets to prepare an internationalization plan at USU.

“Improving infrastructure is one of the main points that I initiated after being appointed Chancellor. At that time I made visits to all faculties, and the Faculty of Pharmacy is one of the faculties that needs to be rejuvenated," said the Rector of USU.

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara