MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Internationalization, USU Joins JWG 2022 In France
Internationalization, USU Joins JWG 2022 in France
Published At
12 July 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Internationalization, USU Joins JWG 2022 in France
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 12 July 2022

The Rector of USU also advised that the JWG could be used effectively and efficiently to support USU's vision in the Phase II Strategic Plan to become an international standard university. USU will also collaborate with one of the universities in France, namely Universite Polytechnique Husts-de-France.

PR USU - Entering the second semester of 2022, the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) continues to carry out a series of activities to support its priority program, namely internationalization. Recently, USU joined the 12th Joint Working Group (JWG) on Higher Education, Research, Innovation, and Entrepreneurship in Valenciennes, on 28-29 June 2022. The USU team was represented by the Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos, M.Si, and USU's Director of Internationalization and Global Partnerships, Prof. Dr. Eng Himsar Ambarita.

On that occasion, USU conveyed two crucial things, namely the issue of Tropical Medicine: "Centre of Excellent in Tropical Medicine Faculty of Medicine USU" and Agro-Industry: "Inclusive and Sustainable Palm Oil." Both of these themes received very good interest from several universities in France that made direct contact for joint partnerships, such as Cirad and IuT (Institut Universitaire de Technologie Valenciennes).

The Rector of USU also advised that the JWG could be used effectively and efficiently to support USU's vision in the Phase II Strategic Plan to become an international standard university. USU will also collaborate with one of the universities in France, namely Universite Polytechnique Husts-de-France. This collaboration is expected to involve several universities in Indonesia. In addition to this special program, other specific programs that will be carried out between USU and several universities in France are Summer Course, International Internship, Joint Publication, and Joint Supervision.

The Indonesia-France JWG is a bilateral collaboration forum between Indonesia and France that mostly researchers from Indonesia and France attend and also involves research institutions, business actors, and relevant ministries from each country. This activity is held once in 2 years to discuss higher education, research, innovation, and entrepreneurship issues.

There were around 300 delegates consisting of representatives of universities and research institutions in Indonesia and France. There are also parallel workshops with 8 separate themes, namely Marine and maritime science, ecology, environmental science; Biology, health, and medicine; Food security and agriculture; Engineering, Mechanics, Aeronautics and Energy (Alternative and Sustainable); Information, Communication and Technology; Social sciences and humanities; and Key points for the building.

The activity also resulted in several recommendations that all participants can use to improve reputation and internationalization. For example, some of the recommendations that emerged at this meeting were Promote private investment in Research and Development; Increase the economic impact of Research; Promote strong private and public research partnerships; and Promote the creation and development of innovation-based enterprises.

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Spesial - Spesial

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara