MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Lead Morning Meeting, Vice Rector V Discusses EAM
Lead Morning Meeting, Vice Rector V Discusses EAM
Published At
12 August 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
Lead Morning Meeting, Vice Rector V Discusses EAM
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Monday, 12 August 2024

“So what I need to emphasize to all staff is that the asset's value must be realized,” said WR V.

 

USU PR—Led by Vice Rector V for Asset and Business Management, Ir. Luhut Sihombing, M.P., the routine morning assembly on Monday, July 22, 2024, discussed strategic factors in implementing Enterprise Asset Management (EAM) for the university.

 

In his address, Ir. Luhut Sihombing, M.P., said that USU's assets are estimated to exceed one trillion. These assets must certainly have a value that can be realized in the form of support for academic implementation. For this reason, USU has collaborated with experts from Telkom to increase the added value and effectiveness of university operations.

 

“So what I need to emphasize to all staff is that the asset's value must be realized,” said Vice Rector V.

 

However, Vice Rector V further stated that more than using technology and sophisticated tools is required. In managing a large number of assets, disciplined implementation through Enterprise Asset Management (EAM) is required.

 

Vice Rector V outlined four strategic factors that must be kept in mind and implemented well in the execution of EAM. The first factor is business process improvement. Asset management must be carried out thoroughly and integrally, starting from planning, procurement, and maintenance of assets to provide maximum value to users.

 

The second factor is related to infrastructure reliability. Vice Rector V said that USU's assets function as the main support in the academic, research, and community service processes. Therefore, an accurate prediction of the asset's life cycle must be made. Vice Rector V emphasized that periodic maintenance is key to ensuring that infrastructure is always reliable.

 

“We have to know the asset's life cycle; don't let it get damaged or fail before it is repaired,” said Ir. Luhut.

 

Vice Rector V continued, stating that the third factor is asset data integrity. This includes maintaining an accurate inventory and a deep understanding of all assets owned. Not understanding the number and specifications of assets can result in ineffective management.

 

Finally, Vice Rector V said that a change in the mindset of human resources (HR) is also an important factor. Asset management is not only about managing physical objects but also about realizing the value of these assets. Asset management must always consider the risks involved to minimize potential losses and ensure the asset continues to function optimally throughout its life cycle.

News
SDGs 11
SDGs
SDGs 9
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara