MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Acceleration Of Science And Technology Demands Dentists To Be More Professional
Acceleration of Science and Technology Demands Dentists to be More Professional
Published At
16 March 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Acceleration of Science and Technology Demands Dentists to be More Professional
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 16 March 2022

Among other things, by conducting active collaborations between the Government, Universities, Pediatric Dentistry Organizations and industry. In addition, efforts to treat children's dental health problems must be updated regularly, among others through scientific forums like what is currently being done," explained the Chancellor.

USU PR - The acceleration of science and technology made possible by the current disruption, does not escape the demands of pediatric dentists to be more skilled and professional in carrying out their professional roles, duties and responsibilities. This was conveyed by the Rector of USU, Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si at the 15th National Scientific Meeting of Pediatric Dentistry where the North Sumatra Regional Government IDGAI served as the host.

With the theme "Problem Solving of Dentocraniofacial Disorder by Pediatric Dentistry", the event was held online on Friday (11/03/2022).

In his remarks, the Chancellor said that children with a minimal level of knowledge from their families in terms of maintaining dental health is one of the problems that dentists in Indonesia must find solutions and anticipate. Therefore, the awareness movement towards the maintenance of children's dental health must continue to be disseminated massively in the community.

Among other things, by conducting active collaborations between the Government, Universities, Pediatric Dentistry Organizations and industry. In addition, efforts to treat children's dental health problems must be updated regularly, among others through scientific forums like what is currently being done," explained the Rector.

According to the Rector, pediatric dentistry practitioners must also be active in following technological advances, so that they are expected to improve the quality of service to the community.

"This meeting is expected to be able to find the right and fast solution for pediatric patients and all children in Indonesia who experience dental health problems," said the Rector.

Therefore, IDGAI held this meeting by presenting foreign and domestic speakers consisting of top scientists and experts from various scientific branches who are competent in their fields, which are closely related to the field of Pediatric Dentistry.

"This meeting is one of the routine activities held as a scientific forum to improve and develop knowledge, especially for Pediatric Dentists in Indonesia, which aims to find the right and fast solution for pediatric patients and all children in Indonesia who have health problems. teeth," he concluded.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Humas - Humas

News
Education
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara