MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Archives Receives ANRI Supervisory Team Visitation
USU Archives Receives ANRI Supervisory Team Visitation
Published At
06 November 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Archives Receives ANRI Supervisory Team Visitation
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 06 November 2023

I am very happy that Universitas Sumatera Utara was chosen as a pilot for other state universities from all over Indonesia for dynamic archive learning," said the Head of the USU Archives Office.

USU PR - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Archives received a visit from the Supervisory Team for Field Verification in the Context of Archival Supervision by the National Archives of the Republic of Indonesia (ANRI). This visit was carried out at the USU Archives Office, on Friday (20/10/2023).

This visitation is one of ANRI's training programs, which in addition to providing material, also provides direct practice, one of which is visiting the archive office. Later this training will review how to manage good and correct archiving. The USU Archives Office received a recommendation from ANRI as a place for visitation because the USU Archives Office has represented the organization of archives from start to finish.

The Head of the USU Archives Office, Aisyah, S.E., M.Si., welcomed the arrival of the ANRI Supervisory Team. She said the visit of the ANRI Supervisory Team was an honorable thing for USU because it could be an example of learning dynamic archives for other universities from all over Indonesia.

"I am very happy that Universitas Sumatera Utara was chosen as a pilot for other state universities from all over Indonesia for dynamic archive learning," said Aisyah.

The Head of the Work Team for Housekeeping and Archives, Sulthan Kasman, S.E., M.Si., in his remarks, said that archival training cannot only be through material, but there must be practice. This training includes the delivery of material for approximately 4 days, then continues with the exploration of archiving management.

Sulthan Kasman said that this training can also be a material for preparing RPL for training participants and there will be a Follow-up Plan (RTL) in their respective work units after the visit ends.

"After arriving at their respective places, there will be an RTL (Follow-up Plan), which is done after the training is held in their respective work units. We hope some things can be replicated here," said Sulthan Kasman.

Sulthan Kasman also said that the obstacle often experienced by archivists is funding. On average, archives in work units in Indonesia do not have a special budget. That is what causes archives in the work unit to be less organized.

"Because most of the obstacles in archiving management are funding, and budgeting. On average, we meet many in the work unit, but the budget has not been accommodated specifically. Even if it is accommodated, it is not sufficient," explained Sulthan Kasman.

On another occasion, Sulthan Kasman hoped that by holding this training, the participants could explore and learn directly about archiving management. He also hopes that through this visitation, the USU Archives Office can become one of the pioneers in organizing archives, especially for universities throughout Indonesia.

"We hope that this Archives Office will become one of the pioneers in organizing archives, especially for universities throughout Indonesia and then in all archival personnel throughout Indonesia," said Sulthan.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Muhammad Andriansyah - Humas

News
Management
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara