MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Raises Hospitality Standards To Enter 500 QS WUR Rank
USU Raises Hospitality Standards to Enter 500 QS WUR Rank
Published At
09 December 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Raises Hospitality Standards to Enter 500 QS WUR Rank
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 09 December 2021

“In our efforts to be in the top 500 of QS WUR, we must be able to raise our standards. Hospitality standards are one of the keys. Of course, the audience can tell the difference between the standards that exist here and the experiences of your father and mother while studying abroad,” the USU Rector said.

USU PR - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) continues to move in preparing itself to be included in the top 500 of the Quacquarelli Symonds World University Rankings (QS WUR). This series of strategies is outlined in the World Class University (WCU) which is a USU Program and is in line with the USU Rector's priority program in campus internationalization.

USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., in his remarks at the WCU Program: International Academic and Employer Reputation held at the Ballroom of the Adimulia Hotel, Sunday (12/5/2021) said USU must raise its standards. According to him, USU must be at least on par with the world's leading universities.

“In our efforts to be in the top 500 of QS WUR, we must be able to raise our standards. Hospitality standards are one of the keys. Of course, the audience can tell the difference between the standards that exist here and the experiences of your father and mother while studying abroad,” the USU Rector said.

Muryanto Amin said that USU's Hospitality Standard must be improved. These standards include how a university implements aspects of education and services, especially in the implementation of the Tri Dharma of higher education.

“We have to optimize our hospitality standards. The easy way, of course, is the ATM method (Observe, Imitate and Modify). It's a fast way. We already have many examples of getting into World Class University. So actually there are no more difficulties other than we must be willing to work together to implement it," he said.

The Rector gave an example of how leading universities in the United States provide flexibility for their students to develop themselves according to their interests and potential. According to him, this can be implemented through the Independent Learning-Independent Campus (MBKM) program. This is included in the QS WUR assessment in the category of academic implementation.

“Campuses abroad, such as in the United States, provide opportunities for students to develop themselves according to their interests and potential. But still in the corridor that can be accounted for," he said.

In addition, the Rector also mentioned that academics abroad are encouraged to do more research. Universities provide facilities for lecturers and students to conduct collaborative research with academics across countries. In addition, governments abroad always make university recommendations in making a policy. The research results can be categorized as community service. According to him, things like that are the hospitality standards that must be achieved by USU.

“The latest in Indonesia, Unair made a big leap to enter the top 500 of the QS WUR. This is a motivation for us to be able to do the same. We can use some of their strategies as examples. At least they have three strategies," he said.

The Rector said that Universitas Airlangga was improving the educational structure in the classroom by providing information to the public. Unair also scheduled performance targets for lecturers to conduct research and encourage them to conduct collaborative research with foreign academics. Plus, Unair conducts inbound and outbound student exchange activities with various universities in the world.

"In preparing for this, the USU leadership will prepare and increase the budget for this WCU. The concept is that we will conduct a series of research competitions, both with the TALENTA scheme and others,” he said.

In addition, USU will provide incentives to study programs seeking international accreditation. USU will also bridge the academic community who will take research funding schemes from the Ministry of Education, Culture, Research, and Technology (Kemendikbud-Ristek) such as Kedai Reka.

The chairman of USU's World Class University (WCU), Prof. Dr. Eng Himsar Ambarita, said that the role of academics who have received further education abroad is a big capital and potential. Alumni's overseas colleagues are expected to provide testimonials about USU. As is known, this is one of the indicators of QS WUR.

“Ladies and gentlemen who have completed their education abroad must have colleagues, lecturers or friends from abroad. They are very important, we hope that they will provide testimony about USU. Therefore, we really hope for your contribution and participation in this matter," Prof. Himsar said. (©ULC)

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Rizki Hakim Lubis - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara