MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Rector Asks 3,180 USU Graduates To Apply Gritty Leadership
Rector Asks 3,180 USU Graduates to Apply Gritty Leadership
Published At
25 September 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Rector Asks 3,180 USU Graduates to Apply Gritty Leadership
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Sunday, 25 September 2022

"What is needed in the Industrial Era 4.0 is the quality of character that includes curiosity, initiative, perseverance, adaptability, leadership spirit, and awareness of socio-culture," said the Chancellor.

HUMAS - Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si inaugurated 3,180 graduates at the graduation period IV of the Academic Year (FY) 2021/2022. This number brings USU graduates to 239,604 people. With the theme "Gritty Leadership: Managing the Combination of Passion and Perseverance to Encourage Great USU Alumni", the graduation procession lasted for two days at the USU Auditorium on Monday (09/12/2022) and Tuesday (09/13/2022).

Referring to the theme that was carried out at the IV graduation period, the Rector in his speech said that the challenge to survive and move for the better in the era of disruption does not only require literacy skills and competencies but also character qualities which include curiosity, initiative, perseverance, adaptability, spirit leaders, and awareness of socio-cultural

"What is needed in the Industrial Era 4.0 is the quality of character that includes curiosity, initiative, perseverance, adaptability, leadership spirit, and awareness of socio-culture," he said.

The Rector explained that to achieve success in a hyper-competitive era, not only convey the need for a better future, but be able to formulate and communicate the vision, as well as motivate and inspire to realize the vision.

Citing the research findings of a psychologist, the Rector said that the things that determine a person's success are not talent and IQ, but three things, namely grit as a combination of passion and persistence.

The Rector emphasized that Gritty Leadership in principle carried out self-improvement of all the circumstances experienced, including to achieve USU's target of 500 World Class University. Alumni play an important role as one of the barometers for the assessment of the 500 World Class University.

"Angela Duckworth, a printist psychologist, explained her research findings about the factors that determine a person's success and success, namely that it is not talent or talent and not IQ that determines, but Grit (fortitude) as a combination of passion and persistence." explained the Rector.

According to the Rector, alumni must become problem solvers for humanitarian problems so that they become contributors to development in Indonesia, for that the Rector appeals to alumni to continue to learn throughout their lives and practice and understand grit and then use it as the basis for achieving their goals.

"Alumni must be problem solvers for humanitarian problems so that they can become contributors to development in Indonesia, and as I have said before regarding grit, fortitude, don't let there be obstacles that are a little easy to give up," said Muryanto Amin.

Finally, the Rector advised the graduates to continue to grow and benefit as much as possible, and to entrust the greatness of the USU name, and to maintain the flame of enthusiasm in working, achieving, and creating.

On the second day of graduation, the Rector, accompanied by university leaders, presented four of Chrisye's songs, including Kala Cinta Menggoda, Cintaku, Pergilah Kasih, and Pengalaman Pertama which made the graduation atmosphere lively. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - HUMAS

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsyad Mulyadi - HUMAS

News
Education
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara