MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
University Activity
Three USU Medical Faculty Doctors Participate In Clinical Education At NHCS
Three USU Medical Faculty Doctors Participate in Clinical Education at NHCS
Published At
15 February 2024
Published By
Hans Allen Gunawan
Three USU Medical Faculty Doctors Participate in Clinical Education at NHCS
 

Published by

Hans Allen Gunawan

Published at

Thursday, 15 February 2024

Three doctors went to Singapore for Clinical Observership in different divisions. Dr Yuke Sarastri, M.Ked (Cardio), SpJP, who is part of the Heart Failure division, partnered with Dr Ng Choon Ta. Meanwhile, Dr Abdul Halim Raynaldo, M.Ked (Cardio), SpJP(K), joined the Cardiac Rehabilitation division led by A/Prof Tan Swee Yaw. Lastly, Dr Tengku Winda Ardini, M.Ked (Cardio), SpJP(K), underwent her clinical experience in the Echocardiography division led by Dr Jeffrey Lau.

Three USU Medical Faculty Doctors Participate in Clinical Education at NHCS

 

USU PUBLIC RELATIONS: The Department of Heart and Blood Vessel Diseases, Faculty of Medicine, Universitas Sumatera Utara (FK USU) sent representatives to conduct clinical observation programs at the National Heart Center Singapore (NHCS). This activity was held for 2 weeks from January 8 to 19, 2024).

 

The clinical observation collaboration attended by 3 representatives from the Department of Heart and Blood Vessel Diseases, FK USU is a form of collaboration in the field of medical education. NHCS has hosted a series of exciting Clinical Observership programs, providing valuable opportunities for medical professionals worldwide to expand their knowledge in the field of heart disease.

 

As one of Asia's largest heart health centers, NHCS has state-of-the-art facilities and an experienced medical team that focuses on diagnosing and treating heart disease. Clinical Observership at NHCS is about improving clinical knowledge and understanding a holistic approach to patients with cardiovascular disease.

 

Three doctors departed for Singapore for Clinical Observership in different divisions. dr Yuke Sarastri, M.Ked (Cardio), SpJP, part of the Heart Failure division, partners with Dr Ng Choon Ta. Meanwhile, dr Abdul Halim Raynaldo, M.Ked (Cardio), SpJP(K), joins the Cardiac Rehabilitation division led by A/Prof Tan Swee Yaw. Lastly, dr Tengku Winda Ardini, M.Ked (Cardio), SpJP(K), underwent her clinical experience in the Echocardiography division led by Dr Jeffrey Lau.

 

dr Yuke Sarastri, M.Ked (Cardio), SpJP, shared her experience during her Clinical Observership at NHCS. “I have been involved in rounds with the heart failure staff team and observed the outpatient clinic. I was very fortunate to be able to follow medical procedures such as Right Heart Catheterization and Endomyocardial Biopsy and also to be able to see the implantation of the Right Ventricular Assist Device in advanced heart failure patients who have received the Left Ventricular Assist Device, where such cases are rare, so I feel very fortunate to have had it. This experience broadens my knowledge in the field of cardiology.”

 

On the other hand, dr Abdul Halim Raynaldo, M.Ked (Cardio), SpJP (K), has been involved in managing cardiac rehabilitation patients under the guidance of A/Prof Tan Swee Yaw. The cardiac rehabilitation program at NHCS has provided a deeper understanding of the importance of physical exercise for patients with heart disease.

 

Meanwhile, dr Abdul Halim Raynaldo, M.Ked (Cardio), SpJP (K) added that Cardiac Rehabilitation activities begin every morning at 8 am by supervising exercises on patients with heart disease, consisting of post-heart surgery, patients after coronary intervention, and post-LVAD installation. "The Cardiopulmonary Exercise Test (CPET) examination provides great benefits for us, because this action has not been routinely carried out before," he added.

 

In another section, dr Tengku Winda Ardini, M.Ked (Cardio), SpJP (K), has observed advanced echocardiography procedures in the division led by Dr Jeffrey Lau. Observing actions such as Contrast Echo and Bicycle Stress Echo provides valuable insight into the application of technology in the evaluation of heart disease.

 

Dr. Tengku Winda Ardini, M.Ked (Cardio), SpJP (K), describes her experience in the Echocardiography division. "Activities in the Echocardiography division consist of observing follow-up actions such as Contrast Echo, Bicycle Stress Echo, 4D Transesophageal Echo, and assistance with Interventional Echocardiography in the Cath Lab and OT. I feel honored to be part of developing best practices in the field of echocardiography," she said.

 

The three doctors have gained valuable clinical experience at NHCS, where their success confirms the role of NHCS as a center of excellence in the care of heart disease, as well as their commitment to supporting the development of professionalism and knowledge in the field of cardiology. This also highlights the important contribution of the Department of Heart and Blood Vessel Diseases, Faculty of Medicine, Universitas Sumatera Utara in sending its delegation to study at NHCS. (RJ/Al Putra)

SDGs
SDGs 3
University Activity
Research Activity
Find More Activity
University Activity
USU Lecturer Concern on the Extinction of Orangutan Tapanuli
University Activity
USU professor turns shrimp shell waste into face serum
University Activity
USU Research Collaboration Lowers Stunting Rate in Sergai

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara