MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Hosts APTARI 2023 National Meeting
USU Hosts APTARI 2023 National Meeting
Published At
28 August 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Hosts APTARI 2023 National Meeting
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 28 August 2023

We are also proud, thank you because Universitas Sumatera Utara was appointed as the host of the national meeting. We pray together that this event can run smoothly and produce decisions that are good enough for the development of architectural education in Indonesia as well as the development or strengthening of studies, "said Prof. Mury.

USU PR - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) was appointed as the host of the 2023 National Work Meeting of the Indonesian Architecture Education Association (Rakernas APTARI) on August 14-16, 2023 with the theme "Realizing Excellent and Reliable Architecture Education". This Rakernas was held at the Auditorium of Universitas Sumatera Utara.

Through virtual, the Director General of Higher Education, Research and Technology Prof. Ir. Nizam, M.Sc., DIC., Ph.D explained that the National Working Meeting is an important agenda to discuss various developments and design the development of higher education in Indonesia related to advances in infrastructure by looking at the challenges that are so complex for development needs.

"The aptri national working meeting event is certainly a very important annual agenda for association organizations in Indonesia to discuss various developments and design the development of higher education in the country. Currently we know that the development of the construction world is very large. Likewise with the progress of the infrastructure sector. The current and future challenges will be more complex with the expected development needs," said Prof. Nizam.

Therefore, the Governor of North Sumatra Lieutenant General TNI (Ret.) H. Edy Rahmayadi expects all parties to work together like the designers to answer future demands to produce regional development that is a matter of pride.

"I want us to join hands with the designers in the future so that we can jointly answer the demands of the future," said Edy.

Gratitude was expressed by the Rector of Universitas Sumatera Utara Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin S.Sos., M.Si for his trust in USU which was appointed as the host of the 2023 APTARI National Meeting. The USU Rector hopes that this agenda will produce good decisions for the development of architectural education in Indonesia and the strengthening of research studies.

"We are also proud, thank you because Universitas Sumatera Utara was appointed as the host of the national meeting. We pray together that this event can run smoothly and produce decisions that are good enough for the development of architectural education in Indonesia as well as the development or strengthening of studies, "said Prof. Mury.

Chairman of the APTARI Rakernas Dr. Ar. Achmad Delianur Nasution ST., MT., IAI., AA., IAP., GP also thanked USU for hosting in 2023 and hoped that the series of activities would run smoothly until completion.

"First, maybe thank you very much to the central aptari management for trusting Universitas Sumatera Utara as the decided host. Then we try our best to carry out this activity until it is completed later," he said.

APTARI Chairman Dr. Yulianto Purwono Prihatmaji, ST, MT, IPM, IAI explained that the chosen theme focuses on superior and appropriate architectural education both domestically and abroad. The discussion at this Rakernas includes the education curriculum, MBKM, and others.

"We are now increasing the theme, namely superior and appropriate architectural education. So it's not just superior, but also reliable, both domestically and abroad"

To enliven the APTARI Rakernas, Lanny Kamila as the committee mentioned that there was a monument and sketch design competition. Muhammad Shafa Girsang, who is also a committee member, continued that due to the high enthusiasm, this competition is not only for students but also university students.

"Here, apart from the national work meeting, of course there are also competitions from 5 student associations, the competition is a sketch and monument design competition for the Faculty of Engineering," he concluded.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Management
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara