MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Welcomes 2,303 New Students For The 2023 SNBP Program
USU Welcomes 2,303 new students for the 2023 SNBP Program
Published At
06 April 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Welcomes 2,303 new students for the 2023 SNBP Program
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 06 April 2023

The high number of new USU students accepted with the Smart Indonesia Card (KIP) Kuliah this year exceeds the government's target of 20 percent, shows the commitment and concern of Universitas Sumatera Utara to the community in increasing access to education for the less fortunate. This surpasses the minimum limit of government policy for State Universities to accommodate students with KIPK. We hope this policy can help the Government and the community during this difficult economic time. Education is a public right that must be fulfilled, as mandated in Article 31 paragraph 1 of the Indonesian Constitution 1945, which states that every citizen has the right to education, said Edy Ikhsan.

HUMAS USU - Kicking off the admission of new students for the academic year of 2023/2024, Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) accepted 2,303 students through the 2023 National Selection Based on Achievement (SNBP). This number places USU in the 13th rank of state universities admitting the most students in Indonesia, which was presented through the Announcement of National Selection Results Based on Achievement in 2023 by the Ministry of Education and Culture's National Selection Team for New Student Admission (SNPMB) PTN 2023, Jakarta, Tuesday (28/3).

According to the announcement, Universitas Sumatera Utara ranks 7th out of 20 Indonesian State Universities with the most student applicants, which is 21,116 people. USU also ranks 4th nationally among state universities in Indonesia for the level of tightness of interest of study programs, which is occupied by the USU Nutrition Study Program with a tightness ratio of 1.18 percent. The number of new USU students admitted through KIP Kuliah for the SNBP track in 2023 amounted to 709 people or about 30 percent more than the total students admitted to this track.

This was explained by the First Vice Chancellor of USU, Dr. Edy Ikhsan, SH, MA, in official news release delivered by Universitas Sumatera Utara to the press, after the announcement.

“The high number of new USU students accepted with the Smart Indonesia Card (KIP) Kuliah this year exceeds the government's target of 20 percent, shows the commitment and concern of Universitas Sumatera Utara to the community in increasing access to education for the less fortunate. This surpasses the minimum limit of government policy for State Universities to accommodate students with KIPK. We hope this policy can help the Government and the community during this difficult economic time. Education is a public right that must be fulfilled, as mandated in Article 31 paragraph 1 of the Indonesian Constitution 1945, which states that every citizen has the right to education,” said Edy Ikhsan.

The study programs in the field of science and technology with the highest demand at USU for this selection are Pharmacy, Computer Science, Medical Education, Public Health Science and Nursing Science. Meanwhile, for the Social Science Study Program category, the highest demand is occupied by Management, Law, Psychology, Accounting and Communication Science Study Programs. In contrast, the Science and Technology Study Program with the lowest interest in USU is occupied by the Physics Study Program and Local Dialect Literature Study Program for the Social Science Study Program.

USU Rector Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S Sos, M Si, expressed his appreciation and congratulated students who have successfully been accepted through the 2023 SNBP track. He hopes that participants who have not passed should not be discouraged and give up because there are still two more admission channels that can be tried: SNBT and Mandiri.

"We urge prospective applicants to prepare themselves better so that they can achieve the best results and can enter USU," Prof. Muryanto said in his statement.

Meanwhile, the USU Office of Public Relations, Protocol and Promotion Head reminded students who were accepted on the 2023 SNBP track to pay attention to the following important stages. She mentioned that the re-registration process and completing the files should not be neglected throughout the requirements, especially the obligation to register and fill in the complete data for Tuition (UKT) online by uploading files through the website https://registrasi.usu.ac.id from March 30 to April 07, 2023. As for the SNBT program, 2023 will be starting from March 23 to April 14, 2023.

"To the new students who passed the SNBP pathway, we welcome you in being part of the USU family. Please pay attention carefully and in detail to the next stages, note the important dates, and make an alarm if necessary, so you won't miss anything. Students are often late in re-registering because they do not pay attention to deadlines and requirements that must be met, which can cause their accepted status to be cancelled," said Amalia.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Admission
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara