MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Linguistics Doctoral Program Online Lecture Presents Syntactic Expert Of Australian National University
USU Linguistics Doctoral Program Online Lecture Presents Syntactic Expert of Australian National University
Published At
03 August 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Linguistics Doctoral Program Online Lecture Presents Syntactic Expert of Australian National University
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 03 August 2021

MEDAN: Doctoral Study Program (S3) Linguistics, Faculty of Cultural Sciences, USU, is back to expand the study of science in the 3rd Online Lecture series which focuses on the study of Advanced Syntactic Theory. This Online Lecture 3 presents world linguistic expert who is very concerned about researching languages and have won international grants in language studies, namely I Wayan Arka, M.A., PhD., (Lecturer of Udayana and Australian National University).

The activity was opened by the Dean of FIB (Faculty of Cultural Sciences) USU, Dr. T. Thyrhaya Zein, MA. Also, present and giving an introduction at the opening, the Secretary of the Linguistics Doctoral Study Program, Dr. Mulyadi, M.Hum. Online lecture 3 which was held on Saturday (7/17/2021) was attended by participants who were not only lecturers and internal S2 (Masters) and S3 (Doctoral) students of the USU Linguistics Study Program, but also hundreds of academics and language researchers from various regions on the islands of Sumatra, Java, Bali, Papua, and others.

USU FIB Dean, Dr. T. Thyrhaya Zein, MA., in her remarks said, "The USU FIB leadership really appreciates the 3rd online lecture activity held by USU's Linguistics Doctoral Program. We hope that this online lecture can provide enthusiasm, willingness, and open insight for Linguistics Masters and Doctoral students to conduct syntactic studies in their thesis and dissertation final projects. It can also be related to the study of local languages because one of the missions of our study program is to develop language studies of local wisdom in North Sumatra. We hope that this lecture which presents world syntactic expert, could make a new contribution to the development of the study of local cultures and languages that we are interested in. We hope that this lecture can also encourage lecturers and students to increase the publication of scientific articles in reputable national and international journals.”

She also congratulated all participants and hoped that the lecture would be useful both for students in completing their studies and language practitioners in contributing to language development in various study variants.

Dr. Mulyadi, M.Hum., in his speech said, USU's Linguistics Study Program is committed to continuing to promote linguistic studies with the aim of encouraging Linguistics Doctoral students to be more passionate about exploring contemporary linguistic studies and also to stimulate them in completing their studies. In addition, it can also contribute to practitioners and academics in the development of linguistics and explore the potential of local languages that are increasingly marginalized.

“This online lecture 3 is actually part of the linguistics study program that has been programmed. The study program will also conduct international seminars with more interesting themes. This online lecture 3 presents an international class syntax expert, because Mr. I Wayan Arka is really concerned and has won an international grant in language studies. We hope that this course can add new knowledge to renewable linguistic studies," he said.

I Wayan Arka, PhD, in his presentation said that in recent developments in syntactic theory, it is important to involve various aspects outside of syntactic studies. “Syntax studies and some studies of linguistic typology, if the data and analysis of the research are newer, weirder and have never been done by other existing researchers, it is actually getting better and more interesting because the study of languages should be able to provide a new color for the study of linguistics, of course, it must remain in the realm of linguistics. For those of us who want to explore various linguistic studies, we should continue to master and understand the ins and outs of linguistic theory, not just the basics,” he explained.

He is worried that if he conducts a study or researches the field of language while people do not understand the theory that surrounds it, then in data analysis the findings will be dry and cannot reveal new findings that have a strong analytical basis.

“Whatever language study we are going to write or research, we should have strong theory and rich data that we can explore so that the results will be better and correct, and the findings obtained could be used as a basis for other researchers," he said. (*/YH-©ULC)

Author: Muhammad Surif, M. Si - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: - - -

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara