MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU's Faculty Of Psychology Celebrates 25th Anniversary
USU's Faculty of Psychology Celebrates 25th Anniversary
Published At
03 December 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
USU's Faculty of Psychology Celebrates 25th Anniversary
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Tuesday, 03 December 2024

“I hope the Faculty of Psychology will continue to increase its contribution to society through education, research, and service and synergize with the government to face future challenges,” said Prof. Fidel.

USU PR - The Faculty of Psychology, Universitas Sumatera Utara (FPsi USU) successfully organized a lively 25th Anniversary celebration which was followed by various activities, ranging from scientific orations, photo competitions, archipelago culinary bazaars, entertainment, and various interesting performances, which took place in the FPsi USU courtyard on Saturday (23/11/2024).

In his remarks, the Secretary of the University, Prof. Dr. dr. Muhammad Fidel Ganis Siregar, M.Ked (OG), Sp.OG(K)-Fer, congratulated the entire FPsi USU deanate. He hopes that this faculty will continue to develop in carrying out the Tri Dharma of Higher Education, synergize with the government, and provide benefits to society. Prof. Fidel also appreciated the dedication of the entire academic community of FPsi USU.

“I hope the Faculty of Psychology will continue to increase its contribution to society through education, research, and service and synergize with the government to face future challenges,” said Prof. Fidel.

With the theme “Harmony in Collaboration and Competition,” this anniversary emphasizes the importance of collaboration and harmony in the academic world, as well as the faculty's efforts to produce graduates who are not only competent in the field of psychology, but also able to strengthen relationships between individuals and groups in society. FPsi USU is also committed to developing innovative learning models based on research and superior character.

Dean of FPsi USU, Zulkarnain, S.Psi., M.Psi., Ph.D., in his speech, explained the faculty's contribution over the past three years. The Faculty of Psychology has conducted 45 research studies, 47 community service activities, and 51 scientific publications, and 13 copyrights have been obtained. He revealed that he would continue to increase the number of reputable scientific publications and expand collaboration with international researchers.

To strengthen the network, FPsi USU has established 25 Memorandum of Understanding (MoU), 31 Memorandum of Agreement (MoA), and 217 Implementing Agreements (IA) over the past three years. In 2022, FPsi USU won the Best Contribution award in Key Performance Indicator (IKU) 4 for the teaching practitioner program on campus.

In the field of community service, FPsi USU also established a Competency Assessment Center in accordance with the ASN Law in 2022. This center has been recognized for its eligibility by the State Personnel Agency of the Republic of Indonesia in 2023, making FPsi USU one of 11 competency assessment centers in Indonesia.

Student achievements were also highlighted in this event. In 2024, FPsi USU students won 26 national awards and 6 international awards. One of the proud achievements is the success of Monica Septryani Zega in winning the Talented Student award at the 2024 National Student Science Week (PIMNAS). In addition, FPsi USU also consistently sends students to compete in the Student Creativity Program with the achievement of 12 titles in the last three years.

In the field of alumni affairs, FPsi USU appointed Rizty Desta Mahestri Ginting, M.Psi., Psychologist, as Chair of the Alumni Association in 2023. This organization actively supports faculty activities and holds alumni gatherings in 2024.

In his speech, the Dean of FPsi USU also gave appreciation to the Vice Deans I, II, and III, who have contributed to supporting the achievements of the faculty. He also expressed his gratitude to the alumni for their active role in supporting the development of FPsi USU.

“The Faculty of Psychology has conducted 45 researches, 47 community service activities, and 51 scientific publications, and obtained 13 copyrights. We also continue to increase the number of reputable scientific publications and expand collaboration with international researchers,” said the Dean of FPsi.

This anniversary celebration is not only a moment of reflection on the achievements of the Faculty of Psychology USU for 25 years, but also as a first step towards a greater vision in the future.

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara