MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Hasto Kristiyanto Public Lecture At USU: Independent Indonesia, Campuses Must Have A Passion For Leadership
Hasto Kristiyanto Public Lecture at USU: Independent Indonesia, Campuses Must Have a Passion for Leadership
Published At
16 March 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Hasto Kristiyanto Public Lecture at USU: Independent Indonesia, Campuses Must Have a Passion for Leadership
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 16 March 2022

“To build awareness that Indonesia was born for leaders and to become a leader, we must start with an intellectual tradition where the campus must become the center of growth for Greater Indonesia through mastery of science, research, and innovation. We are looking at Indonesia as gold in 2045 and now we have to promote it. Without that leadership spirit, we do not have the energy to move in developing all the resources we have to realize the national interest,” said Ir. Hasto Kristiyanto, MM.

USU - PR: Universitas Sumatera Utara held a public lecture entitled 'Indonesia in Global Geopolitics' by presenting National Figure Ir. Hasto Kristiyanto, MM as a resource person. This public lecture was held at the USU Auditorium, Monday (14/03/2022).

Ir. Hasto Kristiyanto, MM emphasized that the spirit of being independent in building a golden Indonesia 2045 can be realized by producing students who have a leadership spirit and master science and conduct research and innovation. To achieve an independent Indonesia, Ir. Hasto said that campuses must have a passion for leadership to face the upcoming 2054.

“To build awareness that Indonesia was born for leaders and to become a leader, we must start with an intellectual tradition where the campus must become the center of growth for Greater Indonesia through mastery of science, research, and innovation. We are looking at Indonesia as gold in 2045 and now we have to promote it. Without that leadership spirit, we don't have the energy to move in building all the resources we have to realize the national interest," he said.

Furthermore, Ir. Hasto Kristiyanto said that the Indonesian people should learn from other countries and apply according to the Indonesian culture.

“Hopefully, the campus will have a leadership spirit because if we are rich without mastery of science, research, and innovation, it is impossible to be independent. So we have to learn from other countries, then we apply it according to Indonesian culture, and we start from campus, "he continued.

Rector of USU Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si said that the world today must focus on efforts to recover the economy affected by the pandemic and war situations triggered by conflicts between countries in the world. The latest one is the armed conflict between Russia and Ukraine, which many people fear will have a global impact.

“The impact that the world is most worried about today is the opportunity to use weapons of mass destruction such as nuclear weapons in the conflict. Hopefully, this anxiety will not happen, and we can all still see and build a better world in the future," he explained.

Therefore, the Chancellor emphasized that for Indonesia, the war in Ukraine will have political and economic effects that require the Government to recalculate its policy strategy and economic recovery program and structural reforms that are the government's focus in 2022.

"Indonesia must be prepared to face these various disruptions, both in terms of economic, social, political stability, and even access to education," he concluded.

He added that currently, the world is facing a number of complicated problems that require humans to strive harder to mobilize their thinking and analytical abilities and innovations.

"Humans must be able to make breakthroughs in various important fields, which are expected to be able to block and deal with all these threats," he concluded.

The event, which was hosted by the Head of USU's Office of Public Relations, Protocol and Promotion, Amalia Meutia, MPsi, Psychologist, was held in a hybrid manner. Students who attended the USU Auditorium also seemed enthusiastic about participating in the event.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara