MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
10th Anniversary Of USU Fasilkom-IT, Rector: Improving HR Competence In Computer Science
10th Anniversary of USU Fasilkom-IT, Rector: Improving HR Competence in Computer Science
Published At
09 December 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
10th Anniversary of USU Fasilkom-IT, Rector: Improving HR Competence in Computer Science
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 09 December 2021

"Fasilkom-IT has played a role in increasing the progress of computer science in a new industrial culture that is urgently needed at this time," said the Rector.

USU PR - The Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology (Fasilkom-TI) of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) celebrates its 10th Anniversary. USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., advised Fasilkom-IT to continue to shape the character and competence of strong human resources in the world of IT and computer science.

"Fasilkom-TI has played a role in increasing the progress of computer science in a new industrial culture that is urgently needed at this time," said the Rector in the celebration of the 10th Anniversary of Fasilkom-TI which was broadcast via YouTube, Saturday (12/4/2021).

The Rector of USU also conveyed important insights so that Fasilkom-TI can produce the Tridharma transformation. One of them is to design an institutional arrangement that is in line with the 2021-2026 priority work program and the 2020-2024 USU Strategic Plan.

"Transformation in the implementation of Tridharma's duties must be a new mindset for the entire Fasilkom-TI academic community," he said.

According to the Rector, computer science and information technology are the things that are most needed to find concrete ideas to solve problems in the industrial world and today's society.

"Therefore, in relation to the Merdeka Learning Campus Merdeka (MBKM) program, lecturers must have a learning method that hones student creativity and project based learning," he continued.

He emphasized that the classrooms at Fasilkom-IT must have been designed to meet these two indicators. In addition, the scientific transformation of lecturers and students must focus on designing programs to produce research and innovations that are directed to downstream and commercialization products.

“Business changes in any field today have used artificial intelligence and IoT, requiring all scientific disciplines to collaborate with the IT world. IT discipline will never disappear, even other disciplines are needed to improve university programs," the Rector said.

In line with this, the Dean of Fasilkom-TI, Dr. Maya Silvi Lydia, B.Sc., M.Sc. said Fasilkom-TI also plays an active role in the MBKM program. The MBKM program has involved the world of industry with excellent national and international reputations and qualifications in the fields of computer science and information technology.

"There are 93 students who take part in 5 MBKM programs, namely internships, independent studies, campus teaching, outbound and student exchanges," explained Dr. Maya.

She added that even before the MBKM program was launched in 2020, Fasilkom-TI had already sent its students to take part in student exchanges abroad.

"Fasilkom-IT students also play an active role in competitions in the IT field, business plans at national and international levels, and even win international programming competition programs," she continued,

Not only that, Fasilkom-TI alumni have also taken part in various fields from government, education, BUMN to become IT-preneurs.

According to her, the era of Revolution 4.0 and Society 5.0 fundamentally changed the way we work, live, and relate to one another. Industry is starting to touch the virtual world in the form of human, machine and data connectivity.

"IoT is the main concern in preparing work program curricula, as well as facilities and infrastructure that support the Tridharma program to produce reliable graduates in the industrial world," she concluded. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara