MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Inaugurated MBKM, USU Rector: The Marriage Process Of Higher Education And The Needs Of The Industrial World
Inaugurated MBKM, USU Rector: The Marriage Process of Higher Education and the Needs of the Industrial World
Published At
24 September 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Inaugurated MBKM, USU Rector: The Marriage Process of Higher Education and the Needs of the Industrial World
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 24 September 2021

USU PUBLIC RELATION-MEDAN: The Rector of the University of North Sumatra (USU), Dr Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., officially launched the implementation of the Independent Learning-Independent Campus (MBKM) program at USU. The inauguration was held in a virtual event held on Thursday (9/9/2021). Present at the meeting were representatives of USU partners, participants, lecturers, and teaching staff who played a role in implementing it, Muryanto Amin said that the needs of today's industry must be followed by universities. In relation, universities are educational institutions that produce human resources who will enter the industrial world.

“The implementation of MBKM is a marriage process between science in higher education and the needs of the industrial world.We must be able to create graduates who are ready to work and ready to become reliable entrepreneurs.MBKM is an effective fast way to create these human resources,” Muryanto mentioned.

The Rector said that the development of technology and the development of the industrial world has grown rapidly.As a result, universities must be able to adapt to it.As an institution that produces human resources, the role of universities is very important to prepare them.

“Students must have learned to work, try, and be creative since college because there is no such thing as layoffs.This is a golden opportunity for students to actualize themselves through the MBKM program so that they are ready after completing theirstudyperiod," the USU Rector mentioned.

The Rector of USU also advised that even though they are given the freedom to be able to actualize themselves in the MBKM program, students still need to follow the rules and guidelines.With this regulation, it is hoped that the implementation of the MBKM program can run inaccordance with what is expected.

The Directorate General of Higher Education, Ministry of Education, Culture, Research and Technology (Directorate General of Higher Education Kemendibudristek), Prof. Ir Nizam, MSc, PhD, ASEAN Eng in his speech said students must be adaptive and innovative.According to him, these two things are important requirements that must be met by students infacing future challenges.

“Students must have high adaptability and innovation in facing future competition.With adaptive abilities, a student will always be able to survive even in difficult circumstances.Then with high innovation, he is able to use all opportunities to be good opportunitiesfor himself, "said Nizam.

According to him, students who are able to apply an adaptive and innovative attitude will be able to win the competition in the global world.He reminded that advances in technology have accelerated disruption in daily life, so that the adaptive and innovative abilities are believed to be a provision for students.

Independent Learning- Independent Campus (MBKM) provides broad opportunities for students to hone themselves.Colleges must immediately adapt to current developments and get out of their comfort zone.In addition to technological advances, the pandemic has also accelerated theimpact of disruption," he explained.

He also explained that the old ways were no longer fully reliable to improve students' abilities.Prof. Nizam tells how the evaluation of higher education is carried out every five years.According to him, this is irrelevant considering the rapid acceleration oftechnologicaldevelopmentand the disruption that has occurred.

The USU Rector shared the same opinion as Prof. Nizam, saying that students should be directly involved in the real world of work in the learning process.The experience they get becomes their capital when theygraduate from college.

“They apply the theoretical aspects they get on campus to be practical when implementing the MBKM program.Experience becomes very valuable for them as capital to enter the real world of work afterthey graduate," the USU Rector said.

He also hopes that in the future USU's MBKM partners can become practicing lecturers who provide teaching at USU.With the experience they have, the practitioner lecturer can tell thestudentsreal events in theworld of work.

“We also really hope that in the future our partners will be willing to stand in front of the class as a practicing lecturer.The experiences they have are very valuable to share with students.They can learn from the success stories ofthese practitioners,” he said.

On that occasion, USU's Vice Rector I, Dr. Edy Ikhsan, SH, M Hum, explained the details of the participation of USU students in MBKM activities.In his presentation, he said there were 1119 students who were involvedin the activity.

"Out of 1119 students, 469 are involved in teaching campus programs, 209 student exchanges for inbound and outbound students, 240 certified internships, 87 students for independent study, and 5 Indonesian International Mobility Awards," Edy said.

He also added that the total number of students who participated came from 1073 students who participated in the program with the Ministry of Education, Culture, Research, and Technology and 141 students who participated in theprogram with USU partners.

"USU's current partners include PTPN IV, Pegadaian, Bank of North Sumatra, PT Pos, and others which total up to 490 partners.In the outbound student exchange, USU students come from 35 study programs that will carry out learning activities at 22 universities in Indonesia, while inbound there are 34 universities in Indonesia that will beactive at USU," he added.

Edy Ikhsan said this MBKM activity will be held for one semester in the odd semester of the 2021/2022 academic year.The total Semester Credit System (SKS) that will be takenby students is 20 credits.

Muryanto Amin expressed his gratitude to all USU partners.According to him, this program can run on the contribution and shared vision that has been formed.Before closing his remarks, the USU Rector officially opened the implementation of MBKM within USU accompanied by an MBKM information page that can be accessed through mbkm.usu.ac.id. (RR/©ULC)

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Humas - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara