MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU’s LPPM Holds Disucssion On Hutanamale Village, Horticultural Commodities Have High Economic Value
USU’s LPPM Holds Disucssion on Hutanamale Village, Horticultural Commodities Have High Economic Value
Published At
30 August 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU’s LPPM Holds Disucssion on Hutanamale Village, Horticultural Commodities Have High Economic Value
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 30 August 2021

Horticultural commodities that have high economic value are widely cultivated in almost all parts of Indonesia, especially highland areas such as tomatoes, red chilies, celery, mustard greens, and potatoes.

One of them is in Hutanamale Village, Puncak Sorik Marapi Regency, Mandailing Natal Regency, which is one of the centers that develops various horticultural crops, such as vegetables, chilies, tomatoes, celery, shallots, potatoes, oranges, avocados, coffee and ruber.

This was stated by the Coordinator of the Research-Based Service Team, Ameilia Zuliyanti Siregar, M.Sc, PhD during the discussion. The USU LPPM Service Team held training and discussions on “Integrated Pest and Disease Control and Pest and Disease Control of Horticultural Plants” in Hutanamale Village, Puncak Sorik Merapi Madina, Saturday (8/21) and Sunday (8/22).

He said, Madina red chili is a local specific plant, a vegetable that is very familiar to the community. Red chilies are cultivated and consumed because these vegetables contain sources of vitamin (A, B and C), minerals, carbohydrates, protein, fiber and fats which are very useful for health.

Like several other types of vegetables, red chilies are perishable, have a seasonal production pattern and cannot be stored for long because they can rot and become watery. This perishable nature can be caused by the soft stems and the high water content, making them easily penetrated by plant pests/diseases.

He said the caterpillar pests of Spodoptera litura, aphis sp, plutella xylostella, liriomyza sp, thrips palmi, and plutellidae are pests in horticultural crops.

“If no control measures are taken, the damage to the pest vegetable crops can increase and crop yields can decrease both in quantity and quality,” he explained.

According to him, physical control by means of crop rotation, removal, use color traps, set pheromones. While biological control by using predators and parasitoids, as well as chemically using vegetable pesticides is the right way to use the concept of preserving the environment.

On the occasion, other speakers, namely Dr. Ir. Yunilas, MP, brought a topic of making organic fertilizer from vegetables waste as well as trainers on the use of coffee hullers, Putri Candra Ayu, STP, M.Si.

Head of USU LPPM, Prof. Dr. Tulus, M.Si., said that this community service activity aims to design an effective Integrated Pest Management (IPM), train farmers to use simple coffee processing tools and the formation of agro-tourism based on agricultural land.

The location of horticultural, citrus, mango, avocado and coffee plantations in Hutanamale Village is on the slopes of Moun Sorik Merapi, fertile land to support agrivultural productivity.

“The green stretch of rice fields combing the hot springs of Sibanggor, Puncak Sorik Merapi, Mandailing Natal are used by the community as public baths that need to be developed as eco-friendly ecotourism,” he said.

He hopes that agro-tourism by picking vegetables and fruits as well as the process of looking at nature from the peak of Sorik Merapi will be realized in the future.

When visiting the location, the Head of Madina Tourism, M. Yasir Lubis, SP said that the district government was also trying to provide assistance with horticultural seeds, namely chili, potato, tomato and mustard seeds as well as a set of coffee hullers, which were expected to be the initial stimulus for the Happy Farmers Group (Poktan).

“The synergy of this service will anchor USU’s heart in the community,” he said.

He further conveyed, the limited knowledge of farmers in controlling horticultural plant pests, land use that is not optimal and limited coffee processing equipment in Hutanamale Village, Puncak Sorik Merapi, Madina.

Furthermore, the handover of the coffee huller was symbolically handed over by the head of the USU LPPM research-based service team to the Head of Puncak Sorik Merapi Village, Hasibuan.

“It is hoped that the initiation and synergy of the use of agricultural land as agro-tourism between farmers, USU academics, the Madina Government and the community in Hutanamale Village, Puncak Sorik Merapi, Madina will be realized in the future,” he said. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: - - -

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara