MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
DJKN North Sumatra-USU National Webinar Assessment Of Oil Palm Industry
DJKN North Sumatra-USU National Webinar Assessment of Oil Palm Industry
Published At
04 August 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
DJKN North Sumatra-USU National Webinar Assessment of Oil Palm Industry
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 04 August 2022

Head of the North Sumatra DJKN Regional Office, Tedy Syandriadi, said that the theme for this webinar was chosen based on the consideration that Indonesia is one of the world's palm oil producers, so the role of an appraiser is needed for financing purposes and internal management of management to support the sustainability of the palm oil business.

PR USU- The Directorate General of State Assets (DJKN) of the North Sumatra Regional Office in collaboration with the Masters Study Program in Property and Valuation Management (MMPP) of the Unversitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held a webinar with a title of "Palm Plantation Assessment".

The activity was opened by the Rector of USU, Dr. Muryanto Amin S.Sos., M.Sc. and held online via Zoom Meeting on Wednesday, (7/27/2022). This national webinar is a form of participation and support from the North Sumatra DJKN Regional Office in the 2022 DJKN Carnival national activity.

The Head of the North Sumatra DJKN Regional Office, Tedy Syandriadi, said that the theme for this webinar was chosen based on the consideration that Indonesia is one of the world's palm oil producers, so the role of an appraiser is needed for financing and internal management purposes to support the sustainability of the palm oil business.

"In order to support the sustainability of the palm oil business, a large amount of money is needed, so the role of the appraiser is needed for breeding purposes and of course internal management," said Tedy.

The Head of the North Sumatra DJKN Regional Office hopes that this activity can provide knowledge and competence related to the assessment of oil palm plantations so that all assessors can contribute so that it has a positive impact on the economy in Indonesia.

"We hope that this webinar is able to provide and increase knowledge and competence related to the assessment of oil palm plantations so that the competence in this knowledge of all assessors can contribute so that it will have a positive impact on the Indonesian economy," he said.

USU Rector said DJKN is an institution with a specific task from the Ministry of Finance to influence the assessment of state revenues. Dr. Muryanto Amin admitted that USU is currently discussing with the DJKN the management of USU's 600 hectares of palm oil.

"We are in discussions with DJKN for the management of USU's palm oil, which is about 600 hectares," said the Rector.

Referring to this, the Rector hopes that the cooperation process between USU and DJKN can be carried out well because previously USU and DJKN had several discussions about special programs.

"Hopefully it will be well organized for the cooperation process so that a permit can be issued and then the context can be made," the Rector said.

It is hoped by holding this webinar it can have a positive impact, especially with regard to involving students practically in the implementation of MBKM. In addition, the collaboration between USU and DJKN can continue on more sustainable programs so that they can have an impact on the community and the industrial world in a sustainable and planned manner.

"Hopefully this collaboration will continue for more sustainable programs and can also have more impact on society and the industrial world in a sustainable and planned manner," he said. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Collaboration
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara