MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Indonesian Presidential Chief Of Staff Public Lecture At USU
Indonesian Presidential Chief of Staff Public Lecture at USU
Published At
04 March 2024
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Indonesian Presidential Chief of Staff Public Lecture at USU
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 04 March 2024

“Therefore, in achieving the Golden Indonesia 2045, we need to equip ourselves with knowledge, skills, and mental toughness. The courage to innovate, the spirit to learn and adapt, and integrity,” explained Prof. Muryanto.

USU PR - The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held a public lecture, with the theme “Opportunities and Challenges for Young People Towards a Golden Indonesia 2045”. It took place at the USU Auditorium, on Friday (1/03/2024).

This public lecture brought in the Chief of Staff of the President of the Republic Indonesia (RI), General TNI (Ret.) Dr. H. Moeldoko, S.IP, M.Si, as the sole speaker. He will open insights related to the challenges faced and formulate strategies to face the long journey towards the Golden Indonesia 2045.

USU Rector Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si. emphasized that this public lecture reflects USU's strong desire and aspiration to realize a prosperous, highly competitive, and equitable Indonesia in 2045. Young people, who are the hope and backbone of the nation, have a very important role in realizing this dream.

“They are agents of change, innovators, and initiators or prime movers towards the golden Indonesia that we aspire to,” said Prof. Muryanto.

Furthermore, the USU Rector explained the challenges that the young generation needs to face as the backbone of the nation. These challenges involve social, economic, environmental issues, climate change, economic disparities, and challenges in building inclusive and equitable leadership. This is part of the test that must be faced.

“Therefore, in achieving the Golden Indonesia 2045, we need to equip ourselves with knowledge, skills, and mental toughness. The courage to innovate, the spirit to learn and adapt, and integrity,” explained Prof. Muryanto.

In line with that, General TNI (Ret.) Dr. H. Moeldoko, S.IP, M.Si, explained that the government has a strategy to face various challenges, both in terms of geopolitics and domestic challenges. With the target of becoming a developed country by 2045, the government is trying to prevent Indonesia from being trapped in the middle-income trap, especially towards 2036 which is considered a critical period.

“We hope to become a developed country by 2045, but there are various challenges. We have a strategy that young people should also know. There are five strategies,” explained Dr. Moeldoko.

One of these strategies includes solving problems in the agricultural sector. Therefore, General TNI (Ret.) Dr. H. Moeldoko, S.IP, M.Si, hopes that the younger generation can make a significant contribution, especially in the development of the agricultural sector, which is an important part of national economic growth.

“I hope that these young people will have the awareness to take part in the agricultural sector,” hoped Dr. Moeldoko.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Public Relations

Interviewee: Prof. Muryanto Amin - Rector of USU

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Public Relations

News
SDGs 4
SDGs
SDGs 1
SDGs 2
Education
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara