MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
10 USU Students Pass IISMA 2022, Study Abroad
10 USU Students Pass IISMA 2022, Study Abroad
Published At
27 May 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
10 USU Students Pass IISMA 2022, Study Abroad
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 27 May 2022

USU's Vice-Rector I, Dr Edy Ikhsan, SH, MA, said that this year the participants from USU increased from 5 awardees in the previous year, to 10 awardees.

USU PR: 10 students from the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) have successfully passed the 2022 Indonesian Student Mobility Awards (IISMA) selection from the Directorate General of Higher Education Kemendikbudristek. The IISMA awardees from USU ensured themselves to study at various world's leading universities of their choice for one semester.

They are: 1. Feilicia Garcia from the Business Administration Study Program qualified for The University of Sydney, Australia, 2. Fidella Novilya from the Law Studies Study Program qualified for the National Taiwan University of Science and Technology, 3. Axel Beltazar from Architecture Study Program passed to IIT Bombay, India, 4. Sheryll Rania Faradillah Syauki from English Literature Study Program passed to Newcastle University, 5. Winnie Wisely from Mandarin Language Study Program passed to National Taiwan University, 6. Chloe Jane Pagett from Architecture Study Program passed to the University of Waterloo, 7. Kania Alvira Kusnandar from the English Literature Study Program, to the University of Pisa, 8. Ananda Ayya Shofia from the Faculty of Law passed to the University of Warsaw, 9. Shah Reza Pahlevi Harahap from the Faculty of Law to Radboud University, 10. Eva Christine Tinambunan from the Faculty of Economics and Business passed to the University of Pecs.

This was conveyed by USU Vice-Rector I, Dr. Edy Ikhsan, SH, MA, to the media, Friday (20/5/2022). He said, this year USU's participants increased from 5 awardees in the previous year to 10 awardees. Each participant who takes part in the selection is selected based on file eligibility, English language skills, essay assessment containing motivation, targets and objectives, expectations, and implementation of the IISMA program and a nationality test.

Prof. Dr. Dwi Suryanto, M.Sc, as the Head of the Selection and Assistance Committee of IISMA Awardee Candidates for USU 2022, expressed his belief that the large number of USU students participating in the IISMA program this year will bring a significant change in the academic atmosphere.

Prof. Dwi has the same hope for a similar program, namely IIVOSMA, specifically for Diploma Program students. “We also have to work on this program seriously. But, of course, the end of this activity will be our IKU 2," he said.

He further stated that the success of the 10 USU students was, among others, supported by the readiness factor of the companions of the awardees. They started early, although the readiness could not be said to be maximal. “Some things such as an earlier recruitment process in study programs or faculties, earlier assistance from the Language Institute or psychological assistance seem necessary. We believe that other universities with a very large number of student participation must use special strategies to achieve their expected targets. There is no success without money and effort," he said.

Meanwhile, USU's Coordinator of Internal Selection for IISMA 2022, Ely Hayati Nasution, S.S., M.Si, highlighted the national level IISMA 2022 selection process, which was different from the previous year. “This year there will be a diversity survey, validation process, and other related administrative completeness. Longer, but more structured and of course, the competition is very tight, both in terms of quality and quantity. Therefore, during the selection process, we continue to coordinate, especially with the Vice-RectorI and III of USU, so that all processes can run smoothly.”

After graduation announcement, the awardees will follow a pre-departure process which the Office of International Affairs will accompany until the reporting stage and other related processes. It is hoped that all awardees in the future will become embryos that can transmit international interviews following USU's target of becoming a World Class University.

IISMA is a credit transfer MBKM program taken from well-known universities abroad, or to be precise, those that are included in the QS ranking of 300 in the world. This program is very useful, one of which opens students' horizons about the higher education system abroad. In addition, students will gain socio-cultural experience of the international community. No less important, in accordance with the purpose of this program, is to get recognition of learning outcomes (credits/credits) which is equivalent to 20 credits.

Author: Renny Yulia Harahap - -

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Special - -

News
Kampus Merdeka
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara