MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Excellent Research
Family Support As The Main Pillar For Cancer Patients During Chemotherapy
Family Support as the Main Pillar for Cancer Patients during Chemotherapy
Published At
29 May 2024
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Family Support as the Main Pillar for Cancer Patients during Chemotherapy
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 29 May 2024

In cancer treatment, chemotherapy has long been one of the methods used. Chemotherapy is expected to kill or limit the growth of abnormal and uncontrolled cells in the body. If left unchecked, abnormal cell growth will damage healthy tissues. This method can be used for the main treatment of cancer patients, preparation before surgery or radiotherapy procedures, additional procedures after surgery, and to relieve cancer symptoms.

Although effective in treating cancer cells, chemotherapy also causes various side effects. The effects range from mild to severe, depending on the dose and regimen of chemotherapy. The most common side effects of chemotherapy include nausea, vomiting, fatigue and weakness, diarrhea, decreased appetite, pain, and hair loss. These side effects not only affect the patient’s physical condition but also have an impact on their psychological state, such as anxiety, stress, and depression. Patients who experience such psychological distress may experience a decrease in quality of life and potentially interfere with treatment adherence.

Concerning the psychological impact, Medical Expert Prof. Dina Keumala Sari, along with Ratna Dewi and Wardiah Daulay from the Universitas Sumatera Utara Indonesia, in their research, found that family support plays a vital role in overcoming it. They explained that support from all family members, especially spouses, is very influential in cancer patients’ decision-making and survival strategies.

“This support includes managing emotions, providing information on health, lifestyle, and diet, and providing necessary facilities. All of these contribute to improving the survival of patients undergoing chemotherapy,” said Prof. Dina Keumala Sari.

This evidence was obtained by conducting a study on 102 cancer patients at Dr. Pirngadi General Hospital in Medan, Indonesia. Questionnaires were distributed to reveal the role of family support, coping strategies, and anxiety in cancer treatment through chemotherapy methods. Coping strategies are ways that a person copes with anxiety, stress, or discomfort in a condition.

The research findings showed a positive correlation between family support and effective coping strategies for patients undergoing cancer treatment with chemotherapy. According to Prof. Dina Keumala Sari, when patients feel supported, they tend to be better able to deal with the stress and anxiety that arise during chemotherapy. Family support will increase adherence to chemotherapy sessions, making patients more likely to follow their treatment schedule correctly.

In addition, this study’s interesting finding showed a strong negative correlation between family support and anxiety levels in cancer patients. This indicates that the greater the family support patients feel, the lower the level of anxiety they experience. Family support provides emotional comfort and plays a therapeutic role in the patient’s treatment journey.

“Social support, especially from family, can help individuals develop new adaptive behaviors that support better adaptation and learning. This good family support will help cancer patients undergoing intensive and repeated chemotherapy to adapt better and reduce their anxiety towards treatment, thus improving their quality of life,” explained Prof. Dina Keumala Sari.

The strictly scheduled chemotherapy routine brings its challenges, both physically and emotionally. However, with a family always ready to support, hope and enthusiasm for recovery are stronger. When patients feel supported, they tend to be better able to deal with the stress and anxiety that arise during chemotherapy.

This study contributes to providing additional alternative treatment measures for cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy. The journey to recovery involves not only medical care but also emotional and psychological support. As the closest unit and most understanding of the patient’s condition, the family has great power in influencing the treatment journey.

SDGs
SDGs 3
Paper Details
Journal
Asian Pacific Journal of Cancer Prevention
Title
Association Between Family Support, Coping Strategies and Anxiety in Cancer Patients Undergoing Chemotherapy at General Hospital in Medan, North Sumatera, Indonesia
Authors
Dina Keumala Sari, Ratna Dewi, Wardiah Daulay
Author Affiliations
Nutrition Department, Faculty of Medicine, Universitas Sumatera Utara, Medan, North Sumatera, Indonesia.
Master of Nursing Program, Universitas Sumatera Utara, Medan, North Sumatera, Indonesia.
Psychiatric and Mental Health Nursing Department, Faculty of Nursing, Universitas Sumatera Utara, Medan, North Sumatera, Indonesia.
DOI
https://doi.org/10.31557/APJCP.2019.20.10.3015
Find More Articles
Research Articles
The Impact of Illustrated Modules in Combating Stunting on Nias
Research Articles
Green Innovation Practices in Palm Oil Refineries
Research Articles
Guardians in Silence: A Deep Dive into the Work of UN Interpreters

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara