MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Agriculture
Master's Program In Agribusiness
Master Program
Agribusiness
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Master's Program in Agribusiness is a study program that prioritizes teaching business and economic sciences in the agricultural sector, which has been established since 1957. This study program is managed by expert lecturers who have national certifications, with a strong commitment to providing interactive and effective learning experiences for students. Through learning agribusiness science, including the agricultural industry, extension, and communication, students are expected to be able to analyze data and information comprehensively by integrating scientific knowledge in agriculture and business economics.

Graduates of the USU Master's Program in Agribusiness have a great opportunity to become agribusiness experts who are able to act as managers, marketers, technicians, and agribusiness consultants who are professional, skilled, innovative, and have an entrepreneurial spirit. For students who complete this study program, the title given is Master of Agriculture (M.P.).

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

agribisnis-s2.usu.ac.id

Master's Program in Agribusiness

Accredited Very Good

2599/SK/BAN-PT/Ak.KP/M/VII/2023

Vision of Master's Program in Agribusiness

To become a leading study program in agribusiness development based on tropical plant agricultural resources, technology, and agribusiness managerial.

Mission of Master's Program in Agribusiness

Quality Education

Organizing quality education in mastering the theories and concepts of agribusiness science with applications in tropical plant agricultural resources, technology, and agribusiness managerial.

Research

Organizing and producing agribusiness research products based on tropical plant agricultural resources, technology, and agribusiness managerial.

Community Service

Organizing community service activities by partnering with institutions or agencies concerned with the management of tropical plant agricultural resources, technology, and agribusiness managerial.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Financial Agribusiness

Agribusiness Marketing

Agricultural Extension and Communication

Contact Us
Master's Program in Agribusiness
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Dr. A. Sofian No.3, Padang Bulan, Kec. Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20155

(061)-8213236 / (061)-8211924 (Fax)

agribisnis-s2.usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara