MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Agriculture
Undergraduate Proagram In Animal Husbandry
Undergraduate Program
Animal Husbandry
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Undergraduate Program in Animal Husbandry is a study program that focuses on the raising and management of farm animals such as cows, goats, chickens, and other types of farm animals. The main focus includes an understanding of nutrition, health, reproduction, and management of farm animals. Established in 1981, this study program was established with the aim of providing teaching in the science of raising, managing, developing technology, and marketing farm animals and their products.

USU's Undergraduate Program in Animal Husbandry has successfully produced quality graduates who are experts in the field of animal husbandry. Supported by expert teaching staff, the program is committed to providing the best integrated curriculum and teaching materials to guide students to become skilled and innovative individuals in the livestock industry. Upon completion of this study program, students will be awarded the Bachelor of Animal Husbandry (S.Pt.) degree in recognition of their expertise and qualifications in the field of animal husbandry.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

prodi_s1_peternakan@usu.ac.id

Undergraduate Proagram in Animal Husbandry

Accredited Excellent

1358/SK/BAN-PT/Ak.KP/S/IV/2023

Vision of Undergraduate Proagram in Animal Husbandry

To become a leading study program in science and technology in the field of integrative animal science that can compete internationally by 2025.

Mission of Undergraduate Proagram in Animal Husbandry

Education

Organizing higher education in the field of integrative animal science and technology with professionalism based on scientific, moral, and ethical studies.

Graduates

Organizing higher education to produce graduates of the Undergraduate Program in Animal Science who become agents of change as a force of modernization in the national/international scope with scientific competence, relevance, and firm competitiveness.

Academic Quality

Conducting, developing, and improving education, research, and community service to enhance academic quality by developing excellent knowledge in the field of integrative animal science and technology.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Livestock Social Economics

Livestock Production

Feed Science and Technology

Contact Us
Undergraduate Proagram in Animal Husbandry
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Prof. A. Sofyan No. 3, USU Padang Bulan Campus, Medan City, North Sumatra, 20155

(+62) - 618213181

prodi_s1_peternakan@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara