MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Takes Part In Cultural Night 2024 In Bangkok
USU takes part in Cultural Night 2024 in Bangkok
Published At
25 October 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
USU takes part in Cultural Night 2024 in Bangkok
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Friday, 25 October 2024

“So USU students are involved in singing Anak Medan songs and performing Tor Tor dances typical of North Sumatra. Their performance was very stunning and managed to give its own color to the cultural show, “said Prof. Poppy in her official statement.

USU PR - The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) took part in the Indonesian Cultural Night 2024 performance, which presented 165 performers from a number of regions in Indonesia at Kbank Siam Pic-Ganesha Theater, Bangkok on Sunday (15/9). The Embassy of the Republic of Indonesia (KBRI) in Bangkok initiated the activity by involving a number of students from USU as the main performers.

 

USU Rector, Prof. Muryanto Amin, represented by USU Vice Rector III, Prof. Poppy A Z Hasibuan, said that USU's involvement in this international event is a form of trust from the government in USU's talents in the fields of arts and culture.

 

“So USU students are involved in singing Anak Medan songs and performing Tor Tor dances typical of North Sumatra. Their performance was very stunning and succeeded in giving its own color to the cultural show, “said Prof. Poppy in her official statement.

 

Prof. Poppy said that USU's involvement in international activities in Bangkok, Thailand, was very important to introduce USU to the international community. “These steps are USU's efforts to raise USU's reputation at the international level,” she said.

 

Indonesian Cultural Night 2024 is one of the priority programs of the Indonesian Embassy in Bangkok in the Trade, Tourism, Investment and Culture Forum (TTICF) 2024 series held to strengthen Indonesia-Thailand relations and cooperation through a combination of cultural performances, business forums and art exhibitions.

 

Around 1,000 spectators, mostly Thai citizens and government officials as well as the diplomatic corps, enjoyed the traditional Indonesian dance and music performances such as Bebarisan Sudamala Dance performed by ISI Denpasar, Ronggeng Panggung Dance from Universitas Padjadjaran, Tor Tor Dance from Universitas Sumatra Utara and Prawira Wengker and Lerok Lelono Dance performed by Universitas Negeri Surabaya.

 

Previously, Indonesian Ambassador to Thailand Rachmat Budiman, in his statement, highlighted the importance of cultural exchange as a bridge of friendship between Indonesia and Thailand and other international communities. “Our cultural heritage is a bridge for our nation. Through this event, we celebrate the richness of our traditions and the beauty of collaboration between Indonesia and Thailand,” Ambassador Rachmat said when opening the event.

 

According to him, the cultural show was not only to promote Indonesian art and culture but also as a representation of the strong cultural ties between the two countries. “Through music, dance, and stories, this unique event reflects the deep connection and values shared by these two neighboring countries,” he said.

 

The collaboration between Ambassador Rachmat and Wattanatham Band from Chulalongkorn University, Thailand, was one of the highlights of the event. On that occasion, the Ambassador also sang Batak songs such as O Tano Batak, Baringin Sabatola, and Anak Medan, arranged by the Universitas Sumatera Utara. The students of Sekolah Indonesia Bangkok also demonstrated their proficiency in playing angklung and kulintang musical instruments while performing Jaranan and Sajojo songs.

 

Present as the Guest of Honor was the Speaker of the Parliament of Thailand, Wanmuhammadnoor Matha. Also present were Thai Senate Chairman Mongkol Surasajja, UNESCAP Executive Secretary Armida Salsiah Alisjahbana, Deputy Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Busadee Santipitaks, and Bangkok Governor Chadchart Sittipunt.

 

News
Headline
SDGs 11
SDGs
SDGs 17
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara