MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
15 Study Programs At The Universitas Sumatera Utara Receive International Accreditation
15 Study Programs at the Universitas Sumatera Utara Receive International Accreditation
Published At
22 March 2025
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
15 Study Programs at the Universitas Sumatera Utara Receive International Accreditation
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Saturday, 22 March 2025

The Rector explained that the university has also worked hard by presenting regulations related to the curriculum and adequate supporting infrastructure. When the visitation was conducted, 15 study programs were ready to welcome because the quality standards had been successfully met.

 

Public Relations USU—Supporting the World-Class University (WCU), Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) has succeeded in making 15 study programs internationally accredited. Accreditation certainty was obtained after 15 study programs were declared to meet the qualifications of accreditation standards from the Foundation for International Business Administration Accreditation (FIBAA).

 

The 15 study programs are S1 Law Science (Faculty of Law), Undergraduate in Political Science (FISIP), Undergraduate in Communication Science (FISIP), Undergraduate in Sociology (FISIP), Undergraduate in Social Anthropology (FISIP), Undergraduate in Social Welfare (FISIP), Undergraduate in Accounting (FEB), Undergraduate in Management (FEB), Undergraduate in Development Economics (FEB), Undergraduate in Agribusiness (FP), Undergraduate in English Literature (FIB), Undergraduate in Arabic Literature (FIB), Undergraduate in Malay Literature (FIB), Undergraduate in Indonesian Literature (FIB) and Undergraduate in Mandarin Language (FIB).

 

The accreditation process from FIBAA itself is not easy. In addition to conducting a series of document filings, the German-based FIBAA also conducts field visits to see the study program's supporting facilities, such as the availability of laboratories, classrooms with international standards, services, facilities that are friendly to people with disabilities, and curriculum quality testing.

 

USU Rector, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., said the success of 15 study programs in achieving international accreditation from FIBAA is a form of strong commitment to improve the quality of education within USU. The declaration of World Class University will be more real with the recognition from FIBAA.

 

The Rector explained that the university has also worked hard by presenting regulations related to the curriculum and adequate supporting infrastructure. When the visitation was conducted, 15 study programs were ready to welcome because the quality standards had been successfully met.

 

Prof. Mury emphasized that the academic community should maintain the infrastructure built, especially classrooms with international standards. Each study program has built two to three international classrooms complete with equipment. International accreditation will be reviewed every five years. Of course, if the facilities that have been painstakingly built are damaged, this will impact future accreditation assessments.

 

The International Accreditation of FIBAA has succeeded in changing the face of the faculty. Students are also happy with the international achievement and hope that USU can maintain accreditation and improve other study programs to international standards.

 

The presence of 15 internationally accredited study programs also marks that the transformation carried out by USU Rector Prof. Muryanto Amin with all series of policies and work programs in his four years of leadership has significantly impacted the quality of education at Universitas Sumatera Utara.

News
Headline
SDGs 4
SDGs
SDGs 8
SDGs 17
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara