MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Vocational Student Receives IISMA Scholarship
USU Vocational Student Receives IISMA Scholarship
Published At
18 December 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Vocational Student Receives IISMA Scholarship
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 18 December 2023

Steven's opportunity as a Finance student began with the provision of access to Bloomberg Terminal Software, a computer terminal that provides financial information, market data, and sophisticated analytical tools which became one of Steven's main weapons in exploring and exploring relevant information in the financial sector in real-time and globally

Steven Walker Simangunsong has achieved a brilliant experience as a student of the Tax Administration study program at Universitas Sumatera Utara, by successfully winning a prestigious scholarship from the Indonesian government under the auspices of the LPDP institution, namely IISMA (International Indonesian Scholarship Awards) at Coventry University, United Kingdom.

Currently, investment in human resources is one of the important aspects of advancing the potential of the nation's children. This time, Steven had the opportunity to be one of the representatives who received almost half a billion in funding for the IISMA program. For him, this scholarship is not only financial aid but also an opportunity to explore the potential of education in an international scope, which gives him access to dig deeper into practical aspects relevant to his career.

According to Steven, the scholarship is optimally rewarded through the campus program, as well as the excellent facilities provided by Coventry University. As an international student pursuing a degree in Finance and Banking, Steven gained a handful of benefits from his investment in education at Coventry University that strengthened his foundation, both in formal education, character education, and integrity education.

Steven's opportunity as a Finance student began with the provision of access to Bloomberg Terminal Software, a computer terminal that provides financial information, market data, and sophisticated analytical tools, which became one of Steven's main weapons in exploring and exploring relevant information in the financial sector in real-time and globally.

Based on available data, the cost of accessing the Bloomberg Terminal is quite expensive as it costs hundreds of millions per year and is only limited to financial institutions. However, thanks to the Indonesian government's financial support, Steven was able to study at Coventry University, resulting in invaluable experience.

The IISMA scholarship program not only helped him step into a high level of formal education but also created a morally and emotionally resilient character transformation. Through his journey through the IISMA program, Steven came to understand that self-investment is not just about raising your IQ or earning an academic degree, but about how you can grow as a meaningful human being to give back to your community.

During the IISMA program at Coventry, Steven was mentored by Professor Benny Tjahjono, an expert in Sustainability and Supply Chain Management, who is also the Director of Research Engagement for Indonesia.

"Educational investment programs like this are key for many individuals to grow not only as competent professionals in formal education but also as breakthrough interpersonal transformations with integrity for the recipients", Steven concluded.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Achievement
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara