MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Faculty Of Economic And Bussiness Vaccination, USU Is Committed To Stop The Spread Of Covid-19
Faculty of Economic and Bussiness Vaccination, USU is Committed to Stop the Spread of Covid-19
Published At
01 December 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Faculty of Economic and Bussiness Vaccination, USU is Committed to Stop the Spread of Covid-19
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 01 December 2021

"In handling Covid-19, USU has not once relaxed its efforts to combat and stop the potential for transmission, both within USU and for the general public in Medan City and North Sumatra. USU synergizes with various parties, including through the Covid-19 Task Force, as well as other private institutions and companies," Prof. Poppy said.

USU PR - Vice Rector III of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan, S.Si., M.Si., Apt, emphasized that USU is committed to supporting efforts to take preventive or anticipatory measures against the transmission of Covid-19 in various forms of activities. This was conveyed at the Free Vaccination event held by the USU Faculty of Economics and Business, Wednesday (11/24/2021) at USU Pancasila Building.

"In handling Covid-19, USU has not once relaxed its efforts to combat and stop the potential for transmission, both within USU and for the general public in Medan and North Sumatra. USU synergizes with various parties, including through the Covid-19 Task Force, as well as other private institutions and companies," Prof. Poppy said.

The vaccination which was initiated by FEB USU is one of the efforts shown by FEB USU to take care and contribute in providing protection to all extended families and alumni of FEB USU and the people of Medan City from Covid-19 transmission. This effort certainly deserves appreciation and full support from all parties, and is greeted with enthusiasm, especially by the big family of USU FEB and the people of Medan City who have not received vaccinations.

"Vaccination is certainly not the end of efforts to prevent someone from the exposure of Covid 19. Because we will all continue to seek new discoveries that are more effective in providing protection to humans from Covid-19 and reduce the potential for death of Covid-19 victims. However, right now, vaccination is one way that we must take to protect all humans, both health workers and the general public, from the possibility of being exposed to the Covid-19 virus," she said.

She said that the pandemic had changed the order of life and presented challenges that were not easy for us to conquer. But besides that, the pandemic also promises various opportunities which, if you are observant, will bring great benefits and advantages.

"However, not everyone is able to survive through it, except for those who are willing to persistently try to find solutions to every problem they face, and turn difficulties into something valuable and useful, especially for the sustainability and a better future of mankind," she said

Representing the Rector of USU, Prof. Poppy conveyed all elements of the leadership of the Universitas Sumatera Utara, thanking FEB and the Deposit Insurance Corporation (LPS), which made it possible to carry out today's activities.

The Dean of FEB USU, Dr. Fadli said the vaccination activity was a series of activities for the 60th Anniversary of FEB USU. The implementation of the vaccination is supported by LPS Peduli.

“There are around 3,600 doses of vaccine that will be distributed. This activity is a series of activities for the 60th Anniversary of FEB USU," Dr Fadli mentioned. (©ULC)

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara