MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
The USU Rector Collaborates With Productive Researchers To Initiate Scientific Research Institute
The USU Rector Collaborates with Productive Researchers to Initiate Scientific Research Institute
Published At
04 October 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
The USU Rector Collaborates with Productive Researchers to Initiate Scientific Research Institute
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 04 October 2021

Relaxing while having afternoon coffee accompanied by fried sweet potatoes, the Rector explained, the Scientific Research Institute focuses on encouraging USU lecturers to play an active role in conducting scientific research and making inventions that can be patented.

PR USU - The Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., collaborated with researchers and scientific writers in the productive USU environment to initiate the Scientific Research Institute, Monday (9/27).

Relaxing while having afternoon coffee accompanied by fried sweet potatoes, the Rector explained, the Scientific Research Institute focuses on encouraging USU lecturers to play an active role in conducting scientific research and making inventions that can be patented.

“The purpose of the establishment of this institution is that we are serious about producing new lecturers to conduct scientific research whose outputs are reputable journals. Because now the focus of higher education is research and discovery,” he said.

The Rector asked the productive researchers at USU to provide suggestions and ideas to create a road map for the establishment of the institution so that the goals of the recipients of the institution could be achieved.

“We also hope that the best scientific writers in USU can pass on their knowledge to existing lecturers. Teaching tips and tricks on how to make the climate of writing and researching on our campus more vibrant,” he said.

Mury also said that in his imagination, the Scientific Research Institute which was formed later to answer the problems currently faced by lecturers who will write journals and conduct research.

“So later there will be a kind of service manager to be a support system for researchers and writers in the faculties so that the problems they face can be overcome. There are scientific writing services, there are turn-it-in services, English translations, so the institution provides those services," he said.

USU's Vice Rector III, Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Z Hasibuan on the same occasion explained that the preparation for the establishment of the institution had reached the academic text.

"In the near future we will conduct FGDs so that the direction and content of the institution can really encourage USU lecturers to be active in researching and writing in reputable journals at both national and international levels," he said.

Prof. Dr. Urip Harahap, Apt who was present supported the presence of a scientific institution initiated by the USU Rector. However, he assessed that before it was established there was a scientific study related to the mapping of lecturers.

“This mapping is done so that the institution to be established can actually proceed according to expectations. In order not to stagnate, guidelines need to be made so that the presence of the institution is able to answer the problems currently faced related to the lack of professional writers and researchers at USU," he said.

Besides Prof. Urip, the largest patent contributors were also present from USU Dra Ir Chairani Hanum, MS and Dr. Muhammad Taufik, M.Si. As well as the best authors from USU, namely Arif Nuryawan, SHut, MSi, PhD, Dr. Inke Nadia D Lubis, MKed (Ped), SpA, PhD and Dr. Dimensin Ginting, MS. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - PR

News
Collaboration
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara