MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Vocational Education
Diploma Program In Library
Diploma Program
Library
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Diploma Program in Library at the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) was established in 1985. It is a vocational study program that provides education in library science. Currently, this program has received Very Good (A) accreditation.

To prepare students to become professionals, we carry out practicum activities at the USU Library as part of our learning. The USU Diploma Program in Library is committed to producing graduates who are competent in documentation and information and who become expert consultants in library automation and library management for information centers or libraries in North Sumatra and other regions in Indonesia.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

diploma.perpustakaan@usu.ac.id

Diploma Program in Library

Accredited Unggul

3494/SK/BAN-PT/Ak.Ppj/D3/VIII/2023

Vision of Diploma Program in Library

To become a leading study program in the Western Region of Indonesia that produces skilled vocational personnel in the library sector who are able to compete at the regional and national levels.

Mission of Diploma Program in Library

Education

Organize vocational education in the library field using learning methods that apply information and communication technology.

Research

Carry out research in libraries to improve academic quality and knowledge development.

Community Service

Carry out community service related to the library field that is beneficial for changing the lives of the wider community.

Competent Graduate

Produce graduates who have scientific competence in the library field with solid competitiveness and behave with ethical and intellectual behavior.

Academic Ambience

Improve the academic atmosphere conducive to the implementation of the tridarma of higher education.

Collaboration

Establish cooperation with other institutions in the library field to develop education, research, and community service.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Information Organization Management

Information Marketing

Information Institute Administration System

Collection Development

Organization of Information Materials

User Services

Preservation of Information Materials

Information Communication Technology

Profession of Information Manager

Contact Us
Diploma Program in Library
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jalan Bioteknologi No. 2 Kampus USU

(+62)-6182155956

diploma.perpustakaan@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara