MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Faculty Of Law Summer Course Discusses Carbon Trading
USU Faculty of Law Summer Course Discusses Carbon Trading
Published At
26 June 2024
Published By
David Kevin Handel Hutabarat
USU Faculty of Law Summer Course Discusses Carbon Trading
 

Published by

David Kevin Handel Hutabarat

Published at

Wednesday, 26 June 2024

USU's internationalization activities are increasing, including inbound activities, bringing in foreign students. Hopefully, this activity will be recognized, and the Director General's direction will be to record everything that is done. Hopefully, it can be branded, improving USU's image," explained Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan, S.Si., M.Si., Apt.

USU PR — The Faculty of Law (FH) at the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held its 2024 Summer Course Program titled "Carbon Trading for Mangrove Tourism Village." The event occurred at Tuesday's FH USU International Smart Class Room (Jun. 25, 2024).

This 2024 Summer Course Program is an international event involving participants and speakers from within and outside the country. The program lasted for five days and included various activities, including lectures and field studies.

In her remarks, USU Vice Rector III, Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan, S.Si., M.Si., Apt., stated that the theme is very relevant and crucial. She expressed her pride in the fact that FH USU was able to hold an event that involved students from various backgrounds and countries. This program is expected to provide a deep understanding and encourage active participation of participants in environmental issues.

"This is a good platform for exchanging knowledge, ideas, and experiences. I am proud that FH USU can facilitate an event that involves students from various backgrounds and countries. I appreciate the participation of all domestic and international attendees, showing a strong commitment and enthusiasm to learn and contribute," said Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan, S.Si., M.Si., Apt.

Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan, S.Si., M.Si., Apt. She stated that internationalization activities at USU are increasing, especially through programs that attract foreign students. She hopes this activity can improve USU's image in the eyes of the world.

"USU's internationalization activities are increasing, including inbound activities, bringing in foreign students. Hopefully, this activity will be recognized, and the Director General's direction will be to record everything that is done. Hopefully, it can be branded, improving USU's image," explained Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan, S.Si., M.Si., Apt.

The Dean of FH USU, Dr. Mahmul Siregar, S.H., M. Hum., revealed that the theme raised could address environmental and economic issues, provide added value for the community, and increase environmental awareness. He emphasized the importance of literacy regarding government carbon trading regulations, and the faculty of law is tasked with disseminating this knowledge to the public.

"Carbon trading can provide added value for the community economically, make people aware of the environment, and understand its economic value. We are the Faculty of Law; as a higher education institution, we need to educate the public and convey various regulations issued by the government," said Dr. Mahmul Siregar, S.H., M.Hum.

Furthermore, Dr. Mahmul Siregar, S.H., M. Hum. mentioned that this Summer Course includes several visits, such as to the mangrove tourism village in Serdang Bedagai, where international community service is performed by planting mangroves, lectures at Gunung Leuser National Park, and hiking.

"We will go to the mangrove tourism village in Serdang Bedagai to see and introduce the condition of the mangrove forest. We also carry out community service internationally, planting mangroves. Tomorrow, the lecture will be at Gunung Leuser National Park. After that, we will track so that these foreign students know about our forest," said Dr. Mahmul Siregar, S.H., M.Hum.

News
SDGs 15
SDGs 4
SDGs
SDGs 13
Campus Life
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara