MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU's Vocation Commits To Increase International Publication
USU's Vocation Commits to Increase International Publication
Published At
29 December 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU's Vocation Commits to Increase International Publication
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 29 December 2023

Prof Isfenti detailed that there are currently 36 accredited Scopus international publications, the total citations of all lecturers reached 176, and 21 research projects passed the USU talent research. It is also noted that there are 11 in talent dedication, as well as 16 Intellectual Property Rights (HAKI) achieved in 2023

USU - Faculty of Vocational Studies of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) organized the Dissemination of Research and Community Service to the Community event with Vice Rector III for Research, Community Service, and Cooperation of USU Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan S.Si., M.Si., Apt, at the Faculty of Vocation USU Hall on Tuesday (12/12/2023).

Dissemination is a crucial part of scientific research as it aims to spread the results of research, findings, or innovations to the general public. This dissemination process can be carried out through various means, such as publications, presentations, or other activities.

Dean of the Faculty of Vocation, Prof. Dr. Isfenti Sadalia, S.E., M.E, explained that the Faculty of Vocation is committed to following up on the research and dedication results carried out by the lecturers of the Faculty of Vocation. On this occasion, they evaluated several research and dedication activities that had been carried out. Numerous posters were displayed, covering the results of various research projects.

Prof Isfenti detailed that there are currently 36 accredited Scopus international publications, the total citations of all lecturers reached 176, and 21 research projects passed the USU talent research. It is also noted that there are 11 in talent dedication and 16 Intellectual Property Rights (HAKI) achieved in 2023.

"So today, we evaluate how the research and dedication have been carried out. That's why there are many posters here," said Prof Isfenti.

He explained that these publications are also carried out to achieve USU's Main Performance Indicators (IKU) while emphasizing that what has been proposed in the proposal should be implemented. Because the research conducted by lecturers usually produces products.

"So, the research of lecturers usually produces products. So, in addition to publications, it is a product that the community can utilize," explained Prof Isfenti.

Prof. Dr. Isfenti Sadalia, S.E., M.E., expressed hope that these achievements would increase next year. They will strive to encourage lecturers to commercialize research results, considering the faculty's focus on applied vocation. Their orientation is to produce products that can benefit society.

"The total number of vocation lecturers is 84, and it is hoped that they can strengthen their performance," said Prof Isfenti

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Education
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara