MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Indonesian National Police Distributes 1000 Doses Of Vaccines For USU Students
Indonesian National Police Distributes 1000 Doses of Vaccines for USU Students
Published At
24 September 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Indonesian National Police Distributes 1000 Doses of Vaccines for USU Students
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 24 September 2021

USU PUBLIC RELATION-MEDAN: The Indonesian National Police (Polri) distributes 1,000 doses of vaccine for USU students. The distribution event was held at the USU Teaching Hospital on Friday (9/10/2021). The implementation was carried out as a manifestation of the role of the Police in handling Covid-19.

Acting of the Medan Baru Police Head, Ully Lubis, said that the implementation of student vaccination is a series of activities of the National Police to assist the government in distributing vaccines to the community.He said the National Police had instructed the police in all regions to play an active role inhelping to deal with Covid-19.

“Here, the National Police as a vaccine provider cooperates with USU and also the student government to realize student vaccinations.Also helping us from Board of social Guidance (Babinsa) TNI AD so that this vaccination can run smoothly," Ully said.

The vaccination is divided into several stages to avoid crowds.Students to create body resistance among academics are the target of the implementation of vaccination in the Medan Baru area.

“Currently we are distributing 1,000 doses at USU which will be done in 4 days with 250 doses per day.This is done toavoid crowds," he said.

Confirmed in the same activity, the Minister of Health of the USU Student Administration, Aqil said that his party assisted in administrative matters and socialization of the implementation of vaccines to students.He admitted that he had tried to divide the vaccine quota evenly.

“Yes, we helped in the socialization and recruited students to be vaccinated, until finally we got 1000 people.We can get this amount by trying to get all faculties evenly distributed.The percentage also depends on the number of students who have not been vaccinated at the faculty," saidAqil.

Aqil also said that the criteria for students who took part in this vaccination were those who are in the fifth semester above.He mentioned that several faculties needed offline learning, so the implementation of this vaccination was very much neededby students.

Lily also appealed to students to maintain health protocols even though they have been vaccinated.According to him, even though they have been vaccinated, it does not mean that students are ignorant and do notcomply with health protocols.

“For fellow students, even though they have been vaccinated, it doesn't mean they don't comply with health protocols.Continue to comply with health protocols wherever fellow students go, wear masks, stay away from crowds, and wash hands frequently," Ully enclosed. (RR/©ULC).

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Rizki Hakim Lubis, Muhammad Arief H. Harahap - PR

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara