MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
The Rector Program Greets The Faculty
The Rector Program Greets the Faculty
Published At
12 January 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
The Rector Program Greets the Faculty
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 12 January 2023

The Rector visited the Faculty of Social and Political Sciences (FISIP) and the Faculty of Law (FH) on Wednesday (04/01/23). At the same time, the Rector and other university authorities visited the Faculty of Agriculture and Engineering on Thursday (05/01/2023). The Rector Greeting Program's agenda will continue through January 17, 2023.

USU Public Relations - Beginning in 2023, Dr. Muryanto Amin S.Sos. M.Si, Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), began touring all faculties as part of the "Rector Greeting" program. This program is designed to monitor and evaluate (Monev) university priority initiatives within each faculty.

The Rector visited the Faculty of Social and Political Sciences (FISIP) and the Faculty of Law (FH) on Wednesday (04/01/23). At the same time, the Rector and other university authorities visited the Faculty of Agriculture and Engineering on Thursday (05/01/2023). The Rector Greeting Program's agenda will continue through January 17, 2023.

In "Rector Greeting," the Rector introduces the major programs of the institution in 2023. Additionally, the Rector directly reviews each faculty's progress toward USU's goals. According to the Rector of USU, the key program for 2023 is preparing 15 study programs for international accreditation and renovating infrastructure.

"First, international accreditation of 15 academic programs until 2023. Then, enhance the instructional process and classroom infrastructure in the classroom, "The Rector stated during his visit to FH USU.

Dr. Hatta Ridho S.Sos., M.P., Dean of FISIP, admitted that he would improve the teaching process and curriculum. One of the points emphasized by the Dean of FISIP is the inclusiveness of classrooms.

"Of course, there is, including the enhancement of the teaching process and the issue of inclusive class openness, so that all RPS are open access, access to all students, from the beginning of the lecturers' profiles. As a result of curriculum advancement and progress toward international standards, "said FISIP Dean.

The Dean stated that in the future, FISIP would strengthen collaboration with national and international universities and invite practitioners to lecture in the classroom.

"We will expand the participation of practitioners in order to answer student concerns at the level of experience, which we can sometimes answer theoretically but not practically," he added.

Dr. Mahmul Siregar S.H., M.Hum, Dean of FH USU, stated that FH USU would develop a curriculum and adhere to the programs required for international accreditation assessment requirements, given that FH USU is one of the required study programs to participate in international accreditation assessments.

"The Faculty of Law must be among the study programs that adhere to international accreditation. So, as previously said, we have undertaken, for the first time, the initiative to construct a new curriculum in the aftermath of other programs, classroom arrangement, and others, "The Dean of the Faculty of Law stated.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: - - Humas

News
Management
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara