MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU And Journalist Gathering: Collaboration For Progress
USU and Journalist Gathering: Collaboration for Progress
Published At
03 January 2025
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU and Journalist Gathering: Collaboration for Progress
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 03 January 2025

“We have certainly felt the positive (and) inspiring relationship from journalists to USU institutions that several assessments involve publications. Of course, this is the role of journalists, especially USU alumni journalists,” said Prof. Fidel.

Public Relations USU—The Office of Public Relations, Promotion and Protocol of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) again held a gathering with alumni journalists and media partners. The meeting, which was accompanied by lunch, discussed the role of the media as a supporter of strategic progress in the development of universities. This warm talk was held at Koki Sunda Restaurant on Monday (30/12/2024).

USU Secretary Prof. Dr. dr. Muhammad Fidel Ganis Siregar, M.Ked(OG), Sp.OG(K)-Fer, on behalf of the leadership, expressed his gratitude to the journalists who attended today's meeting. The meeting aims to improve the quality of the relationship that has been established. The role of journalists helps the university in terms of reporting the achievements that have been achieved by USU.

“We have certainly felt the positive (and) inspiring relationship from journalists to USU institutions that several assessments involve publications. Of course, this is the role of journalists, especially USU alumni journalists,” he said.

This year, USU recorded a proud achievement with the addition of 24 professors, so now there are 184 active professors in the university environment. This proves USU's commitment to improving academic quality and global competitiveness. In addition, various international rankings achieved by USU continue to show a positive trend. “Slowly but surely, we are increasingly in a respectable ranking,” said Prof. Fidel.

Head of USU Public Relations Amalia Meutia, MPsi, Psychologist, said that adding professors this year was a source of pride for the university. This also raises the university's name because any achievements, activities, or achievements from USU will not be known to the public if they are not published. “They are the anchors of publications with various activities or achievements at USU,” he said.

The event also involved an open discussion between the university and media partners. Apriadi Gunawan from The Jakarta Post media expressed his views on the importance of a close relationship between the media and USU, and will continue to be committed to jointly building the university even better in the future.

“We are partners of USU who commit to making the image and spirit of USU more fragrant in the community,” said Apriadi.

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara