MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Engineering
Undergraduate Program In Mechanical Engineering
Undergraduate Program
Mechanical Engineering
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Undergraduate Program in Mechanical Engineering is a study program that explores the application of physical principles for the analysis, design, manufacture and maintenance of mechanical systems. This study program aims to train students in developing professional attitudes and skills in the field of Mechanical Engineering, in order to be able to adapt and follow the development of new science and technology. Students will study energy conversion focused on machines such as combustion motors, thermal systems, and fluid machines.

Our vision is to become an internationally competitive Mechanical Engineering study program with academic excellence rooted in local wealth. We invite you to join the Universitas Sumatera Utara Undergraduate Program in Mechanical Engineering and start exploring a deep understanding of the scientific field of mechanical engineering. Graduates of this program will hold a Bachelor of Engineering (S.T) degree, ready to contribute to industry and technological developments in the future.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

dtm@usu.ac.id

Undergraduate Program in Mechanical Engineering

Accredited A

142/SK/BAN-PT/Ak-PPJ/S/I/2021

Vision of Undergraduate Program in Mechanical Engineering

Becoming an internationally competitive Mechanical Engineering Study Program with academic excellence characterized by local wealth

Mission of Undergraduate Program in Mechanical Engineering

Academic Climate

Creating a conducive academic climate in achieving teaching-learning, research, and community service.

Excellent Graduates

Providing mechanical engineering higher education programs with a curriculum based on the Indonesian national qualifications framework (KKNI) to produce graduates who are superior and able to answer the demands of the national and international labor market and/or pursue higher education.

Research and Community Service

Encourage and promote research and community service activities through competence in grant fulfillment at the regional, national, and international levels.

International Competitiveness

Developing internationally competitive academic excellence characterized by local wealth through synergy with government, industry, and alumni.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Material and Structure Construction

Production Engineering

Maintenance and Repair

Energy Conversion

Contact Us
Undergraduate Program in Mechanical Engineering
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Almamater, Padang Bulan, Medan Baru, Medan City, North Sumatra, 20155

(+62) - 618211236

dtm@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara