MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Medicine
Medical Doctor Profession
Profession Program
Medical Doctor Profession
Universitas Sumatera Utara

As one of the leading medical education institutions in North Sumatra in 2023, the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Medical Doctor Profession Program is known for its excellent provision of medical education. Supported by the Faculty of Medicine (FK), which was awarded as one of the 11 best medical faculties in Asia in 2022, the program is determined to produce qualified medical professionals ready to compete at national and international levels. Through a combination of comprehensive curriculum and practical experience, students of this program will be well prepared to enter the medical world as skilled and ethical doctors.

Supported by the best team of lecturers and complete educational facilities, the USU Medical Doctor Profession Program provides an environment that supports the learning process. Graduates of this study program will earn the Doctor (dr.) degree.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

psppdfk@usu.ac.id

Medical Doctor Profession

Accredited Excellent

No. 0470/LAM-PTKes/Akr/Pro/VI/2022

Vision of Medical Doctor Profession

To establish the Medical Doctor Profession Education Program of the Universitas Sumatera Utara Faculty of Medicine into a quality medical doctor profession education program by 2024, towards the Center of Excellence in Tropical Medicine and Oncology Prevention in Southeast Asia in supporting the Vision of the Universitas Sumatera Utara Faculty of Medicine to become an educational institution with TALENTA Competitive edge.

Mission of Medical Doctor Profession

Quality of Education, Research, and Community Service

To enhance the quality of education, research, and community service, consistently, effectively and efficiently, and in accordance with advancements in medical science and technology, through good faculty governance and a good quality assurance system.

Agent of Change

To produce graduates who are agents of change as a driving force of modernization in society, equipped with scientific competence, relevance, and strong competitiveness as well as professional and ethical intellectual behavior within the framework of Interprofessional Education / Collaboration (IPE/IPC).

Public Leadership

To establish public leadership through the benefits of research, and community service that has an impact on epidemiology especially in tropical diseases and oncology prevention, with product and scientific development orientation.

Independent and Professional

To establish an independent and professional Faculty in the management and development of the institution and build collaborations with both national and international institutions, especially in the fields of tropical medicine and oncology prevention.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Pediatric Health

Otorhinolaryngology

Cardiovascular Medicine

Dermatology and Venereology

Pulmonology and Respiratory Medicine

Psychiatry

Neurology

Radiology

Internal Medicine

Surgery

Orthopedics and Traumatology

Ophthalmology

Anesthesiology and Intensive Care Therapy

Neurosurgery

Obstetrics and Gynecology

Interprofessional Healthcare Collaboration

Forensic Medicine and Medico-Legal

Community Medicine

Contact Us
Medical Doctor Profession
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Dr. Mansyur No. 5, Padang Bulan, Kec. Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20155

(061) - 8211045

psppdfk@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara