MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Universitas Almuslim Bireuen Hopes To Learn From USU
Universitas Almuslim Bireuen Hopes to Learn from USU
Published At
19 August 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Universitas Almuslim Bireuen Hopes to Learn from USU
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 19 August 2022

The collaboration between the two universities aims to improve the quality of human resources and open a wider space for the implementation of various activities that support the development of skills, knowledge and innovation of graduates of the two universities.

PR USU - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) in collaboration with Al Muslim University Bireuen Aceh as stated in a memorandum of understanding signed by USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin S.Sos., M.Si with the Rector of Al Muslim University Bireun Aceh, Dr. Marwan, M.Pd., at the Office of the Rector of USU on Monday, (8/8/2022).

The collaboration between the two universities aims to improve the quality of human resources and open a wider space for the implementation of various activities that support the development of skills, knowledge and innovation of graduates of the two universities.

The Rector hopes that the collaboration that will be carried out by USU with Al Muslim Bireun University Aceh can strengthen the relationship between the two universities so that it can make a positive contribution to both universities and the good of the people.

"We hope that, with the signing of this memorandum of understanding, the relationship between the Universitas Sumatera Utara and Al Muslim University can be closer and able to make positive contributions, both for the two universities and for the good of the people," he said.

USU Vice Rector III for Research, Community Service, and Cooperation, Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Z Hasibuan said that later there would be a student exchange program and joint research.

“The plan of cooperation that we will do is in the fields of education and research. There will be an exchange of students, furthermore, we plan to carry out joint research,” Prof. Poppy explained.

WR III added that later there will be detailed steps in the form of follow-up after the signing of the MoU, some of those involved in the initial step of this collaboration are Postgraduate Psychology with the Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology (Fasilkom-TI).

The Rector of Al-Muslim University Bireuen Aceh said he wanted to learn a lot from USU, especially in the Tri Dharma of Higher Education.

Dr. Marwan, M.Pd said he wanted to hold a student exchange with technicalities according to MBKM. Later, students from PTS can study at PTN in synergy and improve quality, such as credit transfers, internships, data sharing, and others.

“We will try later that next year there will be an exchange of our students. Our students study at USU Medan according to their respective fields. Later, people from private universities will be able to study abroad, thus strengthening the quality, which in the end there will be slight changes after studying at USU in the form of technically possible credit transfers, internships, data sharing, "said the Rector of Al-Muslim University Bireuen Aceh. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara