MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Handover Of Position And Commemoration Of The 46th Anniversary Battalion-A Student Regiment
Handover of Position and Commemoration of the 46th Anniversary Battalion-A Student Regiment
Published At
29 March 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Handover of Position and Commemoration of the 46th Anniversary Battalion-A Student Regiment
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 29 March 2023

We hope that many students will join the USU Battalion-A Student Regiment. In addition, USU will also involve itself with MBKM Bela Negara (State Defense) in the coming semester, and it has the same message as the vision and mission of USU Student Regiment. We also hope that Student Regiment will assist in defence, security and matters relating to security within USU. Therefore, we hope for a good collaboration, explained the First Vice Rector of USU.

HUMAS USU - The Student Regiment Battalion-A of Universitas Sumatera Utara celebrated its 46th anniversary and held a handover of positions for the 2023-2024 period at the USU Student Centre. The event was attended by USU Vice Rector I for Academic, Student Affairs, and Alumni Affairs, Dr Edy Ikhsan SH, MA, Friday (10/03/2023).

On this occasion, the First Vice Rector of USU hoped that more and more students would join the USU Battalion-A Student Regiment. In addition, Dr. Edy Ikhsan SH, MA, also wants the involvement of the USU Battalion-A Student Regiment in the State Defence division of MBKM, which will be launched next semester, as well as assisting USU's internal defence and security.

“We hope that many students will join the USU Battalion-A Student Regiment. In addition, USU will also involve itself with MBKM Bela Negara (State Defense) in the coming semester, and it has the same message as the vision and mission of USU Student Regiment. We also hope that Student Regiment will assist in defence, security and matters relating to security within USU. Therefore, we hope for a good collaboration”, explained the First Vice Rector of USU.

The change of leadership of the USU Battalion-A Student Regiment brought Nurhadi Ahmad Juang to replace Lukman Purwadi as Commander of Battalion-A USU. The First Vice Rector of USU called this a process of leadership regeneration. Vice Rector I of USU emphasised that USU will continue to encourage and build good collaboration with the USU Student Regiment.

"Today, the position of Commander of Battalion-A USU 2023 has been handed over, which is a natural process in carrying out leadership regeneration. The involvement of the Student Regiment in USU is significant. Therefore we will form a better collaboration, at least in encouraging the Student Regiment to be involved in efforts to provide an approach to understanding and love for nationalism, defending the Republic of Indonesia in instilling values for students, which is very important because at this time we are invaded by foreign cultures, and others as a form of self-defence," he explained.

Meanwhile, the USU Battalion-A Commander, Nurhadi Ahmad Juang, who has been elected since January, wants massive transformation for all Student Regiment members. This transformation is needed in implementing a combination of science and military service, following the motto Widya Castrena Dharma Siddha (refinement of service with science and military knowledge) promoted by Student Regiment Battalion-A USU.

"Student Regiment is not only limited to students who have a spirit of militarism, but in the Student Regiment, we also learn science and must have good intelligence, so that to defend the country we do not only rely on muscles but a combination of brains and muscles. In line with our vision, we have a mission to cooperate with external parties and submit to the rectorate's policies," said Nurhadi.

So far, the USU Battalion-A Student Regiment has carried out several projects, some of which are a joint State defence and security system with the State Police Headquarters and has also submitted a proposal for the 2023 Student Organisation Capacity Building Program.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Campus Life
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara