MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Socialization Of Traffic Safety Campus Giat At USU
Socialization of Traffic Safety Campus Giat at USU
Published At
11 October 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Socialization of Traffic Safety Campus Giat at USU
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 11 October 2023

I appreciate the joint efforts between the Indonesian National Police and the university community, in increasing awareness and safety in traffic," said Prof. Muryanto.

USU PR - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) welcomes the implementation of the Traffic Safety Campus Event held by the police, at the Auditorium on Wednesday (27/09/2023).

In his remarks, USU Rector, Prof. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M. Si., said that as an academic community, universities have a very important role in socializing factors that can protect the safety of road users and drivers in traffic. Especially for students, lecturers, and employees.

"I appreciate the joint efforts between the Indonesian National Police and the university community, in increasing awareness and safety in traffic," said Prof. Muryanto.

Maintaining safety and creating a safe environment in traffic is very important, therefore Prof. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M. Si., highlighted the importance of understanding and respecting traffic rules, using vehicles wisely, and being responsible in prioritizing safety in travel.

"We will listen to guidance, information, and advice from the speakers and the police. It is related to protecting the security of the community and the academic community, especially in our campus environment." said Prof. Muryanto.

The main goal of this collaboration is to create a Safety Pioneer Campus. Therefore, the Director of Security & Safety of the Korlantas Polri, Brigadier General of Police Ery Nursatari, is optimistic about running a collaborative program that has been designed over the past year, which involves starting from the PAUD level to all universities in Indonesia.

"Now we are focusing on universities, creating collaborative activities between Jasa Raharja, universities, and Korlantas. It is called the Safety Pioneer Campus," said Ery.

Furthermore, Brigadier General of Police Ery Nursatari encouraged students to become safety pioneers in the university area, with the hope that this program will continue to grow and involve various activities that support police duties.

"We will continue to evaluate to ensure the success of this program in all Indonesian universities. To reduce the number of accidents," Ery added.

Director of Institutional Relations of PT Jasa Raharja, Munadi Herlambang, explained that in 2022, Jasa Raharja provided compensation of 154 billion rupiah for 3574 accident victims in North Sumatra. Consisting of those who died and suffered injuries. There was an increase of 22%, in the number of accident victims compared to the previous year.

Munadi Herlambang also added his party together with the Ministry of Education, Culture, Research and Technology (Kemendikbud), has prepared to insert an official curriculum with the concept of safety campaigns in educational institutions.

"This year and next year, we, together with the Ministry of Education, Culture, Research, and Technology, have also prepared to include an official curriculum with the concept of safety campaign," said Munadi.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Collaboration
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara