MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Morning Assembly: Instilling A Culture Of Discipline For Mutual Success
USU Morning Assembly: Instilling a Culture of Discipline for Mutual Success
Published At
11 March 2025
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Morning Assembly: Instilling a Culture of Discipline for Mutual Success
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 11 March 2025

“Discipline is not a habit that is just born. It must be built, trained, and maintained by every individual in the organization,” he said.

 

Public Relations USU - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) again held a Morning Assembly at the Rectorate Bureau Courtyard. This activity became a momentum for Dr. Abdillah Arif Nasution, S.E., M.Si.Ak, CA., Head of the USU Internal Supervisory Agency (BPI), highlighted discipline's importance as the main foundation in achieving academic and professional success on Monday (10/03/2025).

 

In his mandate, Dr. Abdillah Arif Nasution underlined that discipline is not just coming on time or completing tasks according to deadlines, but also reflects commitment, work ethics, and professional responsibility. According to him, an organization supported by disciplined individuals will more easily achieve work targets and create a harmonious work environment.  

 

“Discipline is not a habit that is just born. It must be built, trained, and maintained by every individual in the organization,” he said.  

 

Furthermore, Dr. Abdillah Arif Nasution emphasized that USU's success in scoring academic achievements cannot be separated from the culture of discipline applied in all lines of work. Leaders who set an example, a supportive work environment, and a clear system of rewards and sanctions are key factors in instilling discipline in the institution.  

 

In line with that, Dr. Abdillah Arif Nasution acknowledged that the level of discipline at USU still needs to be improved. Still, he is optimistic that changes for the better can occur if every individual has the awareness to contribute to the university's progress.  

 

“Do not ask what the university has given us, but ask what we have given to this university,” he said.  

 

Dr. Abdillah Arif Nasution invited all employees and lecturers in the USU environment to make discipline a work culture, not just an obligation. According to him, a consistent attitude of discipline will positively impact individual productivity and the institution's overall development.  

 

“As a university that continues to grow, USU is committed to not only producing competent graduates but also shaping the character of academics with integrity, professionalism, and orientation towards excellence,” he said.

 

This Morning Assembly reminded us that discipline is not just a formality but an essential element in creating a productive and competitive academic ecosystem. With a spirit of togetherness and strong commitment, USU is optimistic that it can continue to develop into a university that can compete nationally and internationally.

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara