MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Establishes Partnership With WPI America
USU Establishes Partnership with WPI America
Published At
02 June 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Establishes Partnership with WPI America
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 02 June 2023

We hope to take valuable lessons from this meeting, especially related to the internationalization of a university, the improvement of academic quality, as well as achieving reputation; the most important thing is to get support from WPI regarding research activities and the construction of the Innovation Studio at USU, said Prof. Mury.

HUMAS USU - In pursuit of campus internationalization, Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) officially collaborated with one of the oldest campuses in Massachusetts, United States, which has an international reputation, Worcester Polytechnic Institute (WPI), which was founded in 1865. This partnership focuses on the plan to build an international-standard Innovation Studio in USU with WPI as a role model and advisor.

USU Rector Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, SSos, MSi and colleagues visited and personally signed a cooperation agreement with WPI Rector Winston Wole Soboyejo regarding the plan to build an Innovation Studio. Also included were plans for exchange of students and staff, research collaboration and innovation to improve the quality and capability of graduates of both universities, Thursday (25/5/2023) at 09.00 a.m. local time (USA).

Prof. Mury explained that the main focus of the cooperation between USU and WPI is building an Innovation Studio.

“The Innovation Studio was built to support students' practical learning. It combines theory and practice. For example, the use of printing technology. WPI has experience building integrated studio innovations and is willing to provide assistance to USU,” said Prof. Mury.

The Rector of USU admitted that he was impressed with the laboratory facilities and innovation studios owned by WPI to support student practicum activities. WPI fully implements project-based learning in its learning curriculum.

“We hope to take valuable lessons from this meeting, especially related to the internationalization of a university, the improvement of academic quality, as well as achieving reputation; the most important thing is to get support from WPI regarding research activities and the construction of the Innovation Studio at USU,” said Prof. Mury.

Currently, USU is working to achieve the 500th rank in the QS World University Ranking (WUR) as part of the campus internationalization program. Through Summer Course, Inbound/Outbound Students, International Mobility Staff and Sabbatical Leave programs, USU also invites Worcester Polytechnic Institute to take part and collaborate in these internationalization programs.

Rector of Worcester Polytechnic Institute (WPI) Winston Wole Soboyejo expressed his welcome to the group from Universitas Sumatera Utara that visited WPI, Massachusetts, USA, for the first time. He was pleased with the cooperation that the two campuses would carry out. He hoped that the collaboration could improve the quality and encourage both universities' progress in research, innovation and human resource improvement.

Accompanied by the Vice Rector of Worcester Polytechnic Institute, who is also Professor of Mathematical Sciences Art Heinricher and Dean of the Global School Mimi Sheller, WPI Rector Winston Wole Soboyejo escorted the USU Rector, Prof. Muryanto Amin and his entourage to visit various facilities on the WPI campus such as laboratories, student centers, innovation studios, and conference rooms.

Under the leadership of Rector Prof. Muryanto Amin, Universitas Sumatera Utara has experienced significant progress in the internationalization program. This is indicated by the ranking results of various international assessment institutions in 2023, namely QS World University Ranking at 1200-1400, QS AUR at 451, THE WUR at 1,501 and reaching the 5th position among Indonesian universities for Scimago Rank Institution.

In 2023 USU offered 25 Summer Course programs for international students and lecturers. USU also offers an Inbound/Outbound Students program, which accepted international students from Austria last year to study at the USU Master of Management Study Program for one semester.

This year, USU sent 38 students to study for one semester at Universiti Teknologi MARA (UiTM), Malaysia, ten students to study at the International Center for Chemical and Biological Sciences (ICCBS), Karachi, Pakistan, and four students to conduct "Kampus Mengajar" program at the Indonesian School Bangkok.

In 2022, 7 lecturers participated in the International Mobility Staff program, and one person participated in the Sabbatical Leave program. Meanwhile, this year, nine lecturers participated in the IMS program. There is also a guest lecturer program, which allows foreign lecturers to give lectures at USU in accordance with the subjects they teach.

Partnerships with universities with international reputations also continue to be established in an effort to improve USU's reputation as a world-class campus. Prior to (the collaboration with) Worcester Polytechnic Institute (WPI), Universitas Sumatera Utara has also collaborated with University of Twente in Enschede, Netherlands, which is ranked 212th in the world's top campuses.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Collaboration
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara