MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
With A Focus On Campus Internationalization, USU’s Rector Upholds The Spirit Of Transformation Towards The Ultimate
With a Focus on Campus Internationalization, USU’s Rector Upholds the Spirit of Transformation Towards the Ultimate
Published At
14 July 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
With a Focus on Campus Internationalization, USU’s Rector Upholds the Spirit of Transformation Towards the Ultimate
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 14 July 2021

MEDAN-PUBLIC RELATIONUniversitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is constantly improving its efforts to become a world-class institution. The Rector, Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., has declared that the primary goal for the period 2021-2026 is to make USU become a world-class institution. To accomplish this, he upholds the tagline Transformation Towards the Ultimate.

"We are attempting to transform USU over the next five years. We advocate for the spirit of Transformation Towards the Ultimate to elevate USU to the level of an international institution. This transformation is tailored to the vision, mission, and strategic plan of USU. I hope that this goal of ours will be remembered and ingrained in all of your minds," said the Rector, Friday (5/21/2021) at The Hill Hotel & Resort Sibolangit, Deli Serdang.

He emphasized that USU must become a university with international standards, which is distinguished for its outstanding local excellence. This goal aligns with the vision of becoming a university with academic excellence that serves as a barometer of scientific progress capable of competing in the global marketplace.

He explained his targets and strategies to the Deans at the 2021-2026 USU Work Program Coordination Meeting. He emphasized the importance of inter-party collaboration and coordination.

"We must collaborate to achieve our goal. Working alone will make things more difficult for us, instead, we all must be able to collaborate. We must keep this spirit alive to make the transformation sustain," he said.

He emphasized the significance of transformation in all aspects of USU. He believes that we should review the governance and work system. He believes that the current governances and work system are unsustainable.

"Many aspects of our governances such as activities, productivity, and outcomes remain ineffective. I'm not denying that the outcomes exist, they just aren't sustainable. The task should be specified in detail and used as a basis for determining the remuneration. What I see today is that our system is not sustainable," he added.

He claims that the governance and work systems at USU have been inconsistent. Every change in the Rectors and deans brings about changes in governance and work systems. He believes that with the transformation of governance and work systems, USU will have a complete working patron, allowing it to become better.

"Campus digitization is one way to clean things up. We will implement USU One Data. All activities and events at USU will be recorded in the USU One data. We will prepare the manpower available for input and maintenance. So, everything can be monitored in the future," said the Rector.

Furthermore, he stated that the role of the Dean is critical in monitoring and facilitation. Each study program's potential should be recognized. The Dean's role is to assist the development of the study program.

"It is also the Dean's responsibility to monitor each study program. The study program is the driving force behind the advancement of faculties and universities. "As a result, the dean must be familiar with the potential of the study program to make a better development," he explained.

He pointed out that the dean and deputy dean must be able to effectively manage the faculty so that each study program can carry out activities to the best of its abilities. The Dean must be able to foster a positive environment and also providing adequate facilities and infrastructure.

"When it comes to the budget, the Dean and his deputy dean must be able to prioritize. We must provide adequate facilities in the faculty environment so that all study programs can benefit from them. For example, in the case of the room, we must extend the concept of sharing to another. In my opinion, each lecturer doesn't need to have a room. All we do is providing a one-room model meeting room and refreshments," he explained.

He believes that faculty facilities should be used in way that reflects the spirit of an independent campus. He emphasized that there are no facilities that can be monopolized by one party but that they can be used by any academic community following the rules.He believes that the idea of an independent campus is being well understood.

"In the spirit of an independent campus, we strive to provide students with opportunities to learn outside of the classroom. The concept is currently eight semesters in the classroom. "As a result, we launch curriculum deconstruction in two formats," Muryanto Amin said.

USU is currently developing an independent campus format that includes six semesters of in-class learning for scientific foundations, one semester outdoor, and then another semester back on campus. The second format consists of five semesters in class, two semesters outside of class, and then another semester on campus. Internships, research, Community Service Program (KKN), and other activities are employed as supplementary classroom learning.

"The Head of Study Program must actively involve in facilitating the learning outside the classroom; for instance, seeking partners to accept interns, collaborating with various parties, and so on, because basically curriculum deconstruction is essential for the study programs. In this case the Dean monitors and provides support and assistance to ensure the success of the program," he added.

This activity is an initial meeting of university and faculty leaders following the inauguration of the new deans and the deputies held offline by implementing strict health protocols.

Author: Humas - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara