MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Keeps Striving To Enter The Ranking Of 500 World Class Universities
USU Keeps Striving to Enter the Ranking of 500 World Class Universities
Published At
21 November 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Keeps Striving to Enter the Ranking of 500 World Class Universities
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Sunday, 21 November 2021

The Rector said that USU will conduct scheduled evaluations and plan further long-term and short-term programs to ensure that all missions to be achieved can run well and proportionally and simultaneously with the great interests of the world of education and industry in the future.

Public Relations USU—Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) has launched several USU acceleration programs that are realized quickly and in a structured manner, aiming to enter the 500 World Class University rankings.

"To enter the ranking target, USU must continuously make various efforts, both in socializing the programs that will and have been carried out to the internal USU area and to external parties/stakeholders," said USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si at the World Class University Program Employer Reputation event at the Mahogany Grand Ballroom, Medan, Saturday (11/20/2021).

The Rector said that USU will conduct scheduled evaluations and plan further long-term and short-term programs to ensure that all missions to be achieved can run well and proportionally and simultaneously with the great interests of the world of education and industry in the future.

Several criteria or indicators must be considered to enter the 500 World Class University (WCU) rankings, one of which is employer reputation.

"There are at least 5 employer reputations of 20%. The form is the perception of users of graduates, the perception of users of scientific products, who can use USU graduates and consider them like the manager owner-manager is," he continued.

Dr. Muryanto Amin also said that the role of alumni of the Universitas Sumatera Utara in raising the name and reputation of the university has a very vital and strategic urgency.

"USU alumni are expected to be able to unite with all elements of the university leadership and USU academic community to boost the reputation and potential of USU graduates, university leaders focus on internal, alumni help externally outside the campus," he said.

Muryanto hopes for participation and cooperation between USU, the USU Alumni Association, partners and stakeholders, and institutions/industries/government agencies that absorb USU graduates.

"This participation can be in the form of participation in various surveys conducted by USU related to alumni profession mapping, alumni performance assessments, and other things that are considered important," he explained.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Public Relations

Interviewee: Dr. Muryanto Amin - Rector

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Public Relations

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara