MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Focus On Campus Internationalization, USU-UCYP Malaysia Agree To Establish Cooperation
Focus on Campus Internationalization, USU-UCYP Malaysia Agree to Establish Cooperation
Published At
30 August 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Focus on Campus Internationalization, USU-UCYP Malaysia Agree to Establish Cooperation
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 30 August 2021

USU PUBLIC RELATIONS-MEDAN: The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) continue to strive to create cooperative relationships with various parties. Not only at the National level, but USU also opens cooperation with foreign universities. This time USU signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with University College of Yayasan Pahang (UCYP) Malaysia which was held online on Thursday (8/26/2021).

The signing was represented by Professor Emeritus Dato’ Dr. Ahmad Bin Haji Zainuddin as Vice Rector of UCYP Malaysia and Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., as Rector of USU. Both of them look solid in showing the MoU document to the screen after being signed. The Rector of USU in his speech expressed his appreciation for the signing of the MoU.

“We from the Universitas Sumatera Utara express our gratitude and welcome the opportunity to cooperate with the University College of Yayasan Pahang (UCYP) Malaysia, which was confirmed in the form of the signing of a memorandum of understanding (MoU) today. we hope that this MoU can be followed up with immediate implementation on faculties that are directly involved as cooperation partners, and formulated in detail the concept of activities and their outputs,” the USU Rector said.

The Rector of USU explained that the purpose of the collaboration was to improve the quality of human resources from universities. With the collaboration with UCYP Malaysia, it opens up opportunities for higher education resources to gain insight from various backgrounds.

“The main purpose of building this partnership is to improve the quality of human resources produced by universities, so that they are in line with the demands of the times for the availability of competent and ready-to-use manpower. At the same time, it also opens up a wider space for the implementation of various activities that support the development of skills, knowledge and innovation,” Muryanto explained.

Ahmad Haji Zainuddin in his speech also appreciated USU for opening the tap of collaboration with UCYP Malaysia. He hopes that today’s signing of the MoU can be implemented immediately and will have a good impact on both parties.

“UCYP is committed to opening cooperation with various parties, and today we are very happy to be able to collaborate with USU. Soon, I hope that we can implement this MoU further and it can be implemented as soon as possible,” Ahmad said.

In line with this, the USU Rector said that the scope of collaboration cooperation that USU will carry out with UCYP Malaysia covers a wide field. This collaboration is also the implementation of the Independent Learning-Independent Campus.

The implementation of the collaboration is certainly very useful and provides benefits for the progress of the two universities, USU and UCYP, in improving the quality of education, training, assessment, research and institutional development, which are included in the realm of implementing the Tri Dharma of Higher Education. It is also part of the implementation of the Independent Learning Campus policy implemented by the Indonesian Ministry of Education, Culture, Research, and Technology, by providing opportunities for collaborations with various parties, both government and private, and industrial institutions, as well as cross-border professional organizations,” the USU Rector said.

In closing, the USU Rector hoped that with the signing of this memorandum of understanding for the next five years, the relationship between USU and UCYP Malaysia could be closer and able to make positive contribution, both for UCYP and USU. the collaboration is expected to further expand USU’s opportunities and chances to progress significantly and achieve the targeted campus internationalization goals.

Present at the online meeting, representatives of the UCYP Malaysia, YBhg Tan Sri Dato’ Sri Professor DR. Noorul Ainur Binti Mohd Nur as UCYP Board of Governors, Associate Professor DR. Tan Li Pin as Deputy Vice Rector, Research & Industry Linkage, Associate Professor TS DR. Hafizan Binti Mat Som as Deputy Vice Rector of Academic Advancement and Quality, Encik Jalaluddin bin Abdullah, and Mr. Dedy Sanjaya as Research Management Center Manager.

The USU representative was attended by USU Vice Rector III, Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan, S.Si., M.Si., Apt, Dean of the USU Faculty of Cultural Science,Dr. T. Thyrhaya Zein, MA, Head of USU International Affairs Office, Dr. Esther Sorta Mauli Nababan, M.Sc, lecturers and USU education staffs.(RR/©ULC)

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Rizki Hakim Lubis - PR

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara