MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Pharmacy
Pharmacist Profession Education
Profession Program
Pharmacist Profession Education
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Pharmacist Professional Education is an advanced program after completing the Undergraduate Program in Pharmacy, with the aim of obtaining the title of Pharmacist (Apt.).

With a commitment to provide quality and character-oriented pharmacist professional education with a spirit of democratization, this program is able to produce graduates who have high quality and integrity. The students are trained to conduct research that is innovative, competitive, and beneficial to society as well as contributing to the development of pharmaceutical science. They are assisted by outstanding lecturers who have national teaching certifications. The program focuses on pharmaceutical science in both clinical and industrial fields, so that prospective graduates have career opportunities as pharmacists and researchers in various government and private institutions.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

pendidikan.profesiapoteker@usu.ac.id

Pharmacist Profession Education

Accredited Excellent

No. 0360/LAM-PTKes/Akr/Pro/V/2022

Vision of Pharmacist Profession Education

To become a leading Pharmacist Profession Study Program in Indonesia with international standards characterized by local excellence.

Mission of Pharmacist Profession Education

Education

Organizing Pharmacist Profession Education with quality and character in the spirit of democratization.

Research

Conducting innovative, competitive, and sustainable research in the field of the pharmacist profession that benefits society and the development of science and technology in the pharmaceutical field.

Community Service

Delivering community service that is committed to solving the nation's problems.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Manager

Consultant

Researcher

Caregiver

Contact Us
Pharmacist Profession Education
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Tri Dharma No. 5, 4th Entrance of the USU Padang Bulan Campus

+62618223558

pendidikan.profesiapoteker@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara