MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Gus Yahya Public Lecture At USU Discusses Diversity
Gus Yahya Public Lecture at USU Discusses Diversity
Published At
25 September 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Gus Yahya Public Lecture at USU Discusses Diversity
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Sunday, 25 September 2022

"First of all, we can only get up, the Indonesian economy is if the people are active because the government itself with agendas that can be made in the government's capacity is not enough to be able to bring this community up from the economic difficulties we are experiencing," explained Gus Yahya.

HUMAS - The General Lecture Leadership General Lecturer Series continued to session 2. With the theme of Diversity and Economic Awakening of Indonesia as the G20 Presidency, the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) invited the General Chairperson of the Nahdlatul Ulama Executive Board KH Yahya Cholil Staquf to be a speaker at the USU Auditorium on Friday, (09/09/2020).

Also attended by the Mayor of Medan Muhammad Bobby Afif Nasution, SE., MM, the Board of Trustees, and the USU Leaders, the public lecture was successfully held and attended by a number of student representatives from all faculties at USU.

The Mayor of Medan said that this activity was very useful because in Medan there were various ethnicities and religions, so the material presented by KH Yahya Choli Staquf was very much needed. In addition, the number 1 person in Medan also expressed his gratitude for holding this event.

“Yes, we, Pemko Medan, would like to thank Gus Yahya for providing material to students in Medan and the Rector of USU as the organizer. We know that Medan is a miniature of Indonesia, therefore Medan needs the material presented by Gus Yahya, "said Bobby.

USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin S.Sos., M.Si said that Indonesia not only has diversity in terms of culture but also in political, religious, and ethnic views. Therefore, the diversity that is present in the national culture and social relations must be understood.

"The diversity that is present in the national culture and social relations must be understood wisely and interpreted as a great power to support development," said the Rector.

The Rector hoped that the diversity material presented would be an opportunity for USU students to increase scientific insight and strengthen nationalism.

"This second session gave an understanding that diversity is important to be able to strengthen Indonesia," said Muryanto Amin.

In the second session of the public lecture, KH Yahya Cholil Staquf as a speaker said that the Indonesian economy can only rise when the community actively moves and consolidates to overcome major problems that hinder harmony because the agendas set up by the government are not able to bring people up from adversity the current economy.

"First of all, we can only get up, the Indonesian economy is if the people are active because the government itself with agendas that can be made in the government's capacity is not enough to be able to bring this community up from the economic difficulties we are experiencing," explained Gus Yahya. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - HUMAS

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsyad Mulyadi - HUMAS

News
Education
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara