MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Receives Teaching Farm Grants And Scholarships From PT CPI
USU Receives Teaching Farm Grants and Scholarships from PT CPI
Published At
01 September 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Receives Teaching Farm Grants and Scholarships from PT CPI
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 01 September 2022

The USU Rector in his remarks said, this collaboration is one of the processes of research and experience that must be managed by students and lecturers, because the maintenance of this closed house already uses technology where this technology is understood by the industry because this collaboration also covers the field of development. education, research, community service and business development, as well as other fields that may be expanded in the cooperation period over the next five years.

PR USU - PT. Charoen Pokphand Indonesia Tbk (PT CPI) as a national company engaged in the world of animal husbandry, especially broiler chicken maintenance and cultivation, provided scholarships and Teaching Farm grants to the Unversitas Sumatera Utara (USU), Thursday (8/25/2022). The signing of the memorandum of understanding (MoU) by both parties was signed directly by Dr. (HC) Tjiu Thomas Effendy, S.E., MBA as President Director of PT CPI and Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si as the Rector of USU who was also accompanied by the vice Rectors.

The USU Rector in his remarks said, this collaboration is one of the processes of research and experience that must be managed by students and lecturers, because the maintenance of this closed house already uses technology where this technology is understood by the industry because this collaboration also covers the field of development, education, research, community service and business development, as well as other fields that may be expanded in the cooperation period over the next five years.

“From this closed house, students and lecturers can learn how to raise chickens using technology and research with existing knowledge. In this industrial era, it is necessary to exchange ideas between students and lecturers to the industry, so that students can learn about industry and the industry can find out the lack of tools or their creations from students and the results of academic research," Muryanto Amin said.

The Rector also hopes that lecturers who accompany practical students are practitioner lecturers whose teaching decrees are issued by USU. This is intended so that this teaching farm grant can be well maintained and maintained.

President Director of PT CPI Dr. (HC) Tjiu Thomas Effendy, S.E., MBA in his speech said that the grants made by the company were to support the development of Indonesian human resources (HR) in the Animal Husbandry sector.

In addition to the signing of the MoU, PT. Charoen Pokphand Indonesia through the Charoen Pokphand Foundation Indonesia also signed several Cooperation Agreements (PKS) such as the Cooperation Agreement on Grants for a closed modern chicken coop or commonly referred to as a closed house with a capacity of 20,000 birds, cooperation agreements for cage management, and cooperation agreements. in awarding scholarships to 20 USU students.

Teaching Farm is a Closed House Chicken Cage grant program from Charoen Pokphand Foundation Indonesia to various livestock universities in Indonesia. The closed house to be built is the 14th closed house construction after previously being built a closed house enclosure at Padjadjaran University (UNPAD) – Bandung.

Dr. (HC) Tjiu Thomas Effendy, S.E., MBA explained, the construction of the cage for the Faculty of Agriculture, Department of Animal Husbandry, Unversitas Sumatera Utara (USU) aims to support the improvement of teaching and learning processes, practicum, internship and as a research place for lecturers/students of the Faculty of Agriculture, Department of Animal Husbandry, so that it can complete the skills / abilities both technical in nature regarding broiler chicken maintenance, as well as social and business aspects.

"In the future, with the existence of closed house cages equipped with sophisticated technological facilities, students and lecturers from various faculties can use the closed house as a learning facility and infrastructure to conduct scientific innovation research in the field of poultry rearing and management, in accordance with the development of scientific technology, knowledge of broiler farming that is getting more and more up-to-date,” said Dr. (HC) Tjiu Thomas Effendy, S.E., MBA.

He hopes that this facility can also be an important part of the university's efforts to grow the seeds of social entrepreneurship among students and create graduates who are able to contribute to the national economy and are able to create innovations and create jobs for many people.

“It is hoped that by practicing cultivation in real conditions, it can help students in improving their skills/ability, both in terms of technical maintenance, as well as social and business aspects. So that livestock graduates are not only good at theory, but also proficient in skills, so they have more value. So it is hoped that the Teaching Farm Program can continue and reach all faculties of animal husbandry in Indonesia," he said.

Also attending the event were USU Vice Rectors, Dean of the USU Faculty of Agriculture Dr Tavi Supriana, MS, Head of the USU FP Animal Husbandry Study Program Dr Ir Ma'ruf Tafsin, MSi, Secretary General of the Charoen Pokphand Foundation Indonesia Andi Magdalena Siadari, SH, MH and Regional Head of CPI Sumbagut Drh Bambang Sutrasno, National Production Coordinator, CPI Lukas Shinanjaya and CPI Sumbagut Finance Controller Suguanto. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Scholarship
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara