MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU SPIRIT Club Together With The Salimah Organization Holds Healthy Gymnastics For The Elderly And Nutrition Counseling
USU SPIRIT Club Together with the Salimah Organization Holds Healthy Gymnastics for the Elderly and Nutrition Counseling
Published At
09 July 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU SPIRIT Club Together with the Salimah Organization Holds Healthy Gymnastics for the Elderly and Nutrition Counseling
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Sunday, 09 July 2023

Old age is an age that is very vulnerable to various diseases, including metabolic and infectious diseases. Old age requires good immunity to be able to maintain the body healthy, fit and optimal in activities.

However, this is not an easy thing because old age is a combination of various multifactorial challenges. Not only in terms of lifestyle, proper nutritional intake, appropriate physical activity, but there are other factors such as family, socio-economic, and psychological.

It is this vulnerable age group that is of interest to The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) with the collaboration of the Erasmus Plus SPIRIT Project and USU SPIRIT CLUB in collaboration with the Salimah Organization, Regional Leaders of Muslimah Fraternities in North Sumatra Province.

At the same time, in order to carry out Salimah's work program and welcome the Elderly Day and National Family Day, the USU SPIRIT Club held a joint Elderly Healthy Gymnastics, health checks, and health nutrition counseling for the elderly on Sunday, July 9th, 2023.

USU SPIRIT Project Coordinator, Prof. Dr. dr. Dina Keumala Sari, M. Gizi, SpGK(K) together with The Vice Chairman of the USU SPIRIT Club, Dessy Ramasari, is very enthusiastic about establishing cooperation with the Salimah Organization.

"This collaborative activity will foster a sense of concern for all SPIRIT Club members to develop services to the community, especially sports and proper nutrition for the elderly," said Prof. Dina.

The USU SPIRIT Club Team who took an active role was Risris Salmah Andian, Ardiansyah Selian, Nopiyanti Simbolon, and Fiora Patricia Br. Ginting showed their concern for the importance of physical activity in the elderly and proper nutrition.

On that occasion, the Chairperson of the Committee for the Selfi event Afriani Gultom, S.E., Ak., M.Sc. adding that this event was attended by approximately 1000 participants consisting of Salimah members and the general public. "This activity includes checking blood pressure, body composition, cholesterol levels, and uric acid. Furthermore, the healthy exercise program for the elderly is held at Medan Helvetia Village Hall/Beringin Field, Medan," he said.

Chairperson of the Salimah Regional Association of North Sumatra, Hajjah Nurazizah Tambunan SS together with Secretary, Tengku Amiliza SST, M. I. Kom, stated that this activity was Salimah's work program which supports the Government of the Republic of Indonesia's Program, namely the National Empowered Elderly Movement with Salimah North Sumatra.

"Salsa gymnastics is an abbreviation for the Salimah Elderly School, starting with tongue movement which is the initial movement of this exercise. This is very important for the elderly who experience nervous disorders. The healthy gymnastics for the elderly led by Mrs. Chairiyah, it provides benefits for the elderly, increasing muscle movement and flow. blood," he added.

The Salsa Salimah exercise motto is Healthy, Happy and Independent and this is in accordance with the vision and mission of the USU SPIRIT Club, one of which is to increase physical activity for vulnerable groups, including the elderly.

"Here the role of the younger generation is needed, to provide enthusiasm and share knowledge about the importance of physical activity and good nutrition," she said.

To note, this activity was carried out simultaneously throughout Indonesia with the theme Salimah Elderly Empowered, make yourself, your family and society happy towards a prosperous Indonesia.

Link to online newspaper: https://prosumut.com/2023/07/09/organisasi-salimah-bersama-usu-spirit-club-gelar-senam-sehat-lansia-dan-penyuluhan-gizi/

Author: Dina Keumala Sari -

Interviewee: -

Photographer: Universitas Sumatera Utara - Universitas Sumatera Utara

News
Erasmus
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara