MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Initiates Training Of Telemedicine Volunteer Doctors Treating Covid-19 In North Sumatra
USU Initiates Training of Telemedicine Volunteer Doctors Treating Covid-19 in North Sumatra
Published At
21 February 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Initiates Training of Telemedicine Volunteer Doctors Treating Covid-19 in North Sumatra
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 21 February 2022

“USU is committed to assisting the government in dealing with the spread of this epidemic. USU wants to provide excellent health services to the community, especially in the spread of Covid-19. We hope that the community can be served so that the spread of this epidemic will slow down soon," said the USU Chancellor.

PR USU - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) initiated the Telemedicine Volunteer Doctor Training for North Sumatran Covid Treatment. The training was held to increase the capacity of volunteer doctors who will serve through the Telemedicine network. This training was held on Friday (18/2/2022) online.

Present at the training, the Director-General of Health Personnel of the Ministry of Health, drg. Arianti Anaya, MKM, Medan Mayor Bobby Afif Nasution, Rector of USU Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., Head of the IDI COVID Task Force for North Sumatra Region, dr. Marzuki Samion, MA(K3), Director of USU Hospital, dr. Henry Salim Siregar, Sp.OG(K), Dean of theFaculty of Medicine USU, Prof. Dr. dr. Aldy Safruddin Rambe, Sp.S(K), USU Telemedicine Coordinator, dr. Inke Nadia P. Lubis, M.Ked(Ped), Sp.A, PhD, Chair of the Volunteer Training Committee, dr. M. Rizky Yaznil, Sp. OG (KOnk).

While the presenters dr. Ade Rahmaini, M.Ked(Lung), Sp.P(K), FISR) dr. H. Iman Helmi Effendi, M.Ked(OG), Sp.OG(K) dr. Inke Nadia D. Lubis, M.Ked(Ped), Sp.A, Ph.D Dr. Hilna Khairunnisa Shalihat, M. Gizi, Sp.GK dr. Ananda Wibawanta Ginting, Sp.PD-KP dr. Ramlan Sitompul, Sp. T.H.T.K.L(K), and dr. Rycha Dwi Syafutri.

Rector of USU Dr Muryanto Amin said this was to fulfill USU's contribution to the community in providing health services. He emphasized that USU was committed to assisting the government in dealing with the spread of the Covid-19 outbreak.

“USU is committed to assisting the government in dealing with the spread of this epidemic. USU wants to provide excellent health services to the community, especially in the spread of Covid-19. We hope that the community can be served so that the spread of this epidemic will slow down soon," said the USU Chancellor.

Muryanto Amin explained that USU continues to coordinate with the Covid-19 Task Force. According to him, this communication is important considering that USU consists of many students. Recently, USU has set the teaching and learning process back online after previously being held face-to-face limited.

He also appreciated all parties who had contributed to the implementation of Telemedicine and hoped that this collaboration would continue and could be further improved. He also conveyed his gratitude and motivation to all volunteers to carry out activities optimally.

On the same occasion, mayor of Medan Bobby Nasution explained that currently Medan City is in the PPKM Level 3 zone. This decision was taken after increasing numbers of people exposed to Covid-19.

As is known, starting in 2022, a variant of Covid-19 appeared, namely Omicron. This variant is called more contagious.

"Medan has PPKM Level 3 status, after a while before we were level 1. This increase occurred not only in Medan City, but in many cities in Indonesia. According to our records in Medan City, positive confirmed reports have reached at least 1,100 cases per day. Patients are diagnosed with moderate symptoms and also OTG,” he explained.

He hopes Telemedicine can be widely known by the public. According to him, telemedicine can help the community monitor their own health development. In addition, the existence of Telemedicine helps the public know what actions to take if they are exposed to Covid-19.

Director-General of Health Workers, drg. Arianti Anaya who was present also said that Telemedicine is very necessary in dealing with the surge in cases with the Omicron variant.

According to him, the existence of Telemedicine helps reduce patient interactions with health workers.

“With Telemedicine, it helps us reduce the risk of health workers being infected. Although many health workers are exposed to mild symptoms, this will certainly affect our service ability. We hope that people will actively self-isolate," he said.

At least 446 volunteer doctors have been registered in Telemedicine services. The doctors came from inside and outside USU. Some of them even come from outside North Sumatra. 207 students also assisted the doctors across faculties. These students help with administrative matters as well as deliver medicines and monitoring devices.

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Humas - Humas

News
Campus Life
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara