MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Hospital Vaccines Students, Jokowi: Spend Vaccine Stock!
USU Hospital Vaccines Students, Jokowi: Spend Vaccine Stock!
Published At
25 August 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Hospital Vaccines Students, Jokowi: Spend Vaccine Stock!
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 25 August 2021

USU PUBLIC RELATIONS-MEDAN: The Government of the Republic of Indonesia continues to strive to prevent the spread of Covid-19 through various means . One of the strategies implemented is mass vaccination. Through the vaccination, it is hoped that it will create immune resistance for the community.

The President of the Republic of Indonesia, Joko Widodo, said that every element must work together to make vaccines successful for the people of Indonesia.In his online dialogue,headvised that the existing vaccine stock should be distributed immediately until it runs out.

"I want all of the vaccine stock to be used up.If not, then ask for more.Ireceivedinformation this week that wewillget a sufficient supply of vaccines again.So I hope that all of the vaccine stock is spent for the community," said Joko Widodo to representatives of vaccine participants in several regions in Indonesia, Thursday (8/19/2021).

The activity itself is a student vaccine program spread across six locations in Indonesia.The Regional State Intelligence Agency (BIN) is the executor of activities at each of these points.The six locations are Medan, North Sumatra, Padang Pariaman, West Sumatra, Pekanbaru, Riau, Bontang, East Kalimantan, and Gowa, South Sulawesi.Students of SMA Negeri 1 Medan had the opportunity to participate in the vaccine which was also held at the school.

In the implementation of the vaccination, the Hospital and Faculty of Medicine, Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) health workers became the vaccinators and administrative staff.Deputy Director of USU Hospital, Muhammad Rizki Yaznil, dr, MKed(OG), SpOG(K) Onk said USU Hospital deployed a number of health workers to make the activity a success.

“In this activity we act as health workers who carry out duties as vaccinators and administration.We are deploying doctors, nurses, and administrative staff from the USU Hospital and also the USU Medical Faculty," Yaznil said.

Head of the Regional Board of National Intelligence (BIN) of North Sumatra Province, Brigadier General Asep Jauhari Puja Laksana, reported that there were 5000 participants as targets to be vaccinated in Medan to President Joko Widodo.Heexplained that the vaccine strategy was carried out directly and door to door.

“In Medan, the target for 5000 people is to be vaccinated in two ways, namely directly to students, namely at SMA Negeri 1 Medan, the rest by door to door which takes place in Medan Helvet and Medan Tuntungan Districts.This activity also takes place in collaboration with the North Sumatra Regional BIN with the North Sumatra Provincial Education and Health Office, as well as the Universitas Sumatera Utara," said Asep.

On that occasion, representatives of vaccine participants who had a dialogue with Joko Widodo hoped that face-to-face learning would be implemented immediately.Given that students also find it difficult to study online.Responding to this, Joko Widodo advised that all students should be vaccinated before face-to-face learning is implemented.

“I advise all of our students to be vaccinated first.Later, if we haven't been vaccinated, we will open face-to-face learning, in fact some are infected with Covid-19.If everything is vaccinated, later we can open face-to-face learning," Jokowi said.

In addition, Jokowi also urges vaccine participants to maintain health protocols by wearing masks after being vaccinated.Hesaid that if Covid-19 continues to mutate, all people must remain vigilant.(RR/©ULC)

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Rizki Hakim Lubis - PR

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara