MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Dentistry
Master's Program In Dental Science
Master Program
Master's Program in Dental Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Master's Program in Dental Sciences at the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is an advanced study program that aims to develop dental science through research and applying the latest technology in various aspects, such as oral biology, dental material science, and forensic dentistry. The program is committed to producing innovative and practical research outputs. One of the goals is to improve the quality of students so that graduates can have a successful career as a dentists, both in health institutions and private practice.

The vision of this study program is "To become an institution that produces research-based Master of Dental Science graduates who excel in the field of Biomedical Dental Science nationally and can compete globally." Graduates of the USU Master Program in Dental Science are expected to become agents of change in dental practice, integrate the latest discoveries in patient management, and contribute to scientific progress nationally and internationally. Students who complete this study program will receive a Master of Dental Science (M.Dsc.) degree.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

fkg@usu.ac.id

Master's Program in Dental Science

Accredited Baik Sekali

0138/LAM-PTKes/Akr/Mag/III/2024

Vision of Master's Program in Dental Science

To become an institution that produces research-based Master of Dentistry graduates who excel in Biomedical Dental Science nationally and can compete globally.

Mission of Master's Program in Dental Science

Education

Organizing a Master's Program education in Dentistry that can solve health problems through advances in science and technology in the field of Biomedical Dental Science and can compete globally.

Research

Producing cutting-edge and quality research by utilizing local resources, especially in the field of Biomedical Dental Science, to anticipate future health needs in society and be able to compete globally.

Community Service

Utilizing the results of scientific work that is beneficial to the broader community, especially in the field of Biomedical Dental Science, to be able to improve the quality of oral health services through community service and compete globally.

High Character

Producing graduates with high character and integrity following master qualifications in the field of Biomedical Dental Science and can compete globally.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Biomaterials

Oral Biology

Immunology

Genetics

Pharmacology

Gnathology

Epidemiology

Contact Us
Master's Program in Dental Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jalan Alumni No. 2 Kampus USU, Medan, Sumatera Utara 20155

(061) - 8216131 / (061) - 8213421

fkg@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara