MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
University Activity
Faculty Of Forestry Holds International Exhibition On Bamboo Vegetation Utilization
Faculty of Forestry Holds International Exhibition on Bamboo Vegetation Utilization
Published At
27 December 2023
Published By
David Kevin Handel Hutabarat
Faculty of Forestry Holds International Exhibition on Bamboo Vegetation Utilization
 

Published by

David Kevin Handel Hutabarat

Published at

Wednesday, 27 December 2023

"This international community service needs to be implemented every year as a form of implementation of science that has a direct impact on society and the environment," said Prof. Dr. Agus Purwoko as Vice Dean III of the USU Faculty of Forestry who is in charge of Research, Community Service, and Cooperation.

The USU Faculty of Forestry conducted community service activities (abdimas) under the International Community Service scheme on 25–26 October 2023 in the Project Wings Bukit Lawang area, Langkat Regency, North Sumatra Province.

 

This activity was chaired by Novita Anggraini, M.Sc, from the USU Faculty of Forestry (Fahutan), in collaboration with Dr. Rahmi Karolina from the USU Faculty of Engineering and PUI Bambu. This international community service carried the theme "Riverbank Conservation with the Utilization of Bamboo Vegetation as Embankment Strengtheners".

 

The overseas collaboration partners who participated in this activity were Dr. Rangabhasyiam Selvasembian from SRM University India and Dr. Lee Sheng Hua from Universiti Teknologi MARA Malaysia. In addition to the two partners, participants who took part in this international community service activity were several lecturers from the USU Faculty of Forestry, including Prof. Dr. Agus Purwoko, Dr. Nelly Anna, Dr. Ma'rifatin Zahra, Dr. OK Hasnanda Syahputra, Dwi Endah Widyastuti, M.Si, Ridahati Rambey, M.Si, and lecturers from the USU Faculty of Engineering, namely Dr. Ar. Achmad Delianur Nasution and Ir. Hilma Tamiami Fachrudin, Ph.D, as well as students from the USU Faculty of Forestry, USU Faculty of Engineering, SRM University, and MARA Universiti Teknologi.

 

This activity began with socialization and training on the potential of bamboo as a river embankment conservation plant, as well as mentoring and direct planting of bamboo in the river embankment area to mitigate flash floods in Bukit Lawang. Bamboo is the choice of vegetation for river embankment conservation because it has roots that can function as erosion barriers to prevent the danger of flooding. As additional information, all types of bamboo can be used as erosion barriers because they have a fibrous root system with very strong rhizome roots.

 

The types of bamboo planted are betung bamboo and black bamboo. Based on research by Putro, Jumari, and Murningsih (2014), betung bamboo has the Latin name Dendrocalamus asper, with slightly dense clumps and yellowish green stems, larger in size, and taller than other types of bamboo. The height of the betung bamboo stem can reach 20 meters with fairly long and thick segments. Betung bamboo has a hard stem so it is good for building materials. In addition to preventing erosion and flooding, betung bamboo can also be used for water channels, containers for tapped palm water, woven house walls (gedhek or ruangan), and various types of crafts. Meanwhile, black bamboo, which has the Latin name Gigantochloa atroviolacea, has looser clumps and is blackish green. The growth of black bamboo is rather slow, and its stems are upright and can reach a height of 20 meters. In addition to preventing erosion and flooding, this type of bamboo is very good for making musical instruments.

 

"This international community service needs to be carried out every year as a form of implementing science that has a direct impact on society and the environment," said Prof. Dr. Agus Purwoko as Vice Dean III of the USU Faculty of Forestry in charge of Research, Community Service, and Cooperation.

 

According to him, this activity has the potential for collaboration with USU partners abroad to build and restore the potential of natural resources that have been degraded, especially those in North Sumatra. (RJ)

University Activity
Community Service Activity
Find More Activity
University Activity
USU Lecturer Concern on the Extinction of Orangutan Tapanuli
University Activity
USU professor turns shrimp shell waste into face serum
University Activity
USU Research Collaboration Lowers Stunting Rate in Sergai

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara