MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU's 8th National Conference On Industrial Engineering For Sustainable Solutions
USU's 8th National Conference on Industrial Engineering for Sustainable Solutions
Published At
06 June 2024
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU's 8th National Conference on Industrial Engineering for Sustainable Solutions
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 06 June 2024

“My advice to students is to utilize and take useful knowledge during the presentation of the materials because it will be an asset for students in the future,” said Prof. Himsar

USU PR—In an effort to reduce the negative impacts of energy use, transportation, consumption, and waste management, the Industrial Engineering Department of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) hosted the 8th National Conference on Industrial Engineering under the theme "Sustainable Solutions for Everyday Life." The conference was held in a hybrid format at the USU Student Center and via Zoom meeting on Friday (May 31, 2024).

According to Prof. Dr. Eng. Himsar Ambarita S.T., M.T., the implementation of this seminar contributed significantly to the Sustainable Development Goals, as outlined in one of the program's ranking indicators. The seminar's implementation was deemed highly influential and provided extensive experiences and insights. This initiative also targeted USU's Production System Laboratory in the planning and development of products in the healthcare field, serving as a guiding knowledge for USU to fulfill its duties in accordance with the Tri Dharma of Higher Education.

Furthermore, Prof. Dr. Eng. Himsar Ambarita S.T., M.T., Director of the Directorate of Internationalization and Global Partnership, explained that this event's role also contributes to Key Performance Indicators (KPIs). One of these is the number of faculty works utilized by the industry and how research ideas can be utilized. The event is expected to spark academic and student enthusiasm at USU and showcase works that can be published and applied for the benefit of society.

Prof. Himsar said the seminar should continue, and its results would be published in proceedings available from Talenta Publisher. The Industrial Engineering Department is also expected to maintain the continuity of this conference, serving as a flagship to introduce Industrial Engineering in Indonesia and even on the international stage.

Prof. Himsar added in his interview, "The keynote speakers present include not only academics but also practitioners who will explain how our research ideas can be utilized in achieving Sustainable Development Goals, thus making this knowledge beneficial, especially for USU students."

Serving as a platform that integrates various fields of knowledge and ignites student enthusiasm, Ir. Aulia Ishak, S.T., M.T., Ph.D., IPU, Head of the Industrial Engineering Program at USU, followed by Prof. Dr. Ir. Renita Manurung, M.T., as the Vice Dean I of the Faculty of Engineering, expressed full support for the event. With activities sharing information and extraordinary ideas focusing on the development of sustainable products, this seminar becomes a platform for USU students to gain valuable insights.

"My advice to students is to utilize and take useful knowledge during the presentation of the materials because it will be an asset for students in the future," added Vice Dean I of the Faculty of Engineering at USU.

Abdillah Thoha, chairperson of the NCIE 2024 Committee, mentioned that it has become an annual agenda for USU's Production System Laboratory to promote publication and enhance the visibility of Industrial Engineering from an academic standpoint to external parties. The series of activities began with parallel presentations and paper competitions and culminated in a national seminar. This year, NCIE 2024 received 171 articles to be published in the Talenta Series Energy and Engineering proceedings.

Not only USU students but also students from universities across Indonesia have the opportunity to participate in this event. The activities took place over two days from May 30th to 31st, 2024.

Author: bambang riyanto - staf humas

Interviewee: Prof. Dr. Eng. Himsar Ambarita ST., MT., - Direktur Direktorat Internasionalisasi dan Kemitraan Global

Photographer: Mhd Andriansyah - Staf Humas

News
SDGs 4
SDGs
SDGs 9
Campus Life
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara