MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Vice Rector III Leads USU's Morning Assembly Highlighting Time Discipline And Work Ethic
Vice Rector III Leads USU's Morning Assembly Highlighting Time Discipline and Work Ethic
Published At
21 January 2025
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Vice Rector III Leads USU's Morning Assembly Highlighting Time Discipline and Work Ethic
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 21 January 2025

“Time discipline ensures that priority performance indicators can be met. Every wasted second is a lost opportunity. We must ensure that our time is utilized productively and efficiently,” Prof. Poppy said.

Public Relations USU—Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held a routine morning assembly on Monday (20/01/2025) in the courtyard of GBPA USU. USU Vice Rector III, Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan, S.Si., M.Si., Apt., delivered a mandate regarding the importance of time discipline and increasing work ethic to ensure the achievement of priority performance indicators (IKP). The assembly occurred in the GBPA USU courtyard on Monday (20/01/2025).

 

USU Vice Rector III emphasized that time discipline is the main foundation for success. She also stressed the importance of a punctual culture in various work aspects, from attendance to completion of work programs, especially in the context of USU's new working hours. She believes efficient time use is the key to individual and team success.

 

“Time discipline ensures that priority performance indicators can be met. Every wasted second is a lost opportunity. We must ensure that our time is utilized productively and efficiently,” Prof. Poppy said.

 

Furthermore, USU Vice Rector III invited all university elements to develop a high work ethic as the main driver of achieving performance targets. She explained that USU will focus on 17 priority performance indicators in 2025. These indicators are derivatives of the leading performance indicators set by the ministry and must be achieved within a predetermined period of time.

 

“With dedication, enthusiasm, and hard work, all targets that have been set will be achieved, even exceeding expectations,” she explained.

 

USU has taken concrete steps to improve discipline, such as using a face recognition-based attendance system. However, USU Vice Rector III emphasized that technology is only a supporting tool, while the spirit of work and discipline must come from each individual.

 

“Building enthusiasm and discipline actually comes from oneself,” she said.

 

Responding to the importance of work ethic, Prof. Dr. Erman Munir, M.Sc., stated that work ethic is the main capital for better carrying out responsibilities. He emphasized that each unit must be committed to its given tasks.

 

“Work ethic reflects a commitment to the responsibilities that have been set,” said Prof. Erman.

 

Furthermore, Prof. Dr. Erman Munir, M.Sc., also highlighted the importance of the morning assembly as a forum to unify understanding and enthusiasm in achieving university goals. According to him, this apple can boost all elements of USU's motivation to work better.

 

“The morning assembly is an important moment to understand each other's directions and build a shared spirit in realizing the university's vision,” he said.

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara