MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Engineering
Master's Program In Industrial Engineering
Master Program
Industrial Engineering
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Master's Program in Industrial Engineering offers deepening in the fields of systems engineering, operations management, performance analysis, and production strategy. Students will gain a deep understanding of management concepts and techniques applied in a modern industrial environment.

Graduates of the USU Master's Program in Industrial Engineering are expected to make a significant contribution in improving the competitiveness of local and global industries and leading the transformation towards a more sustainable and efficient industrial future.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

mtind@usu.ac.id

Master's Program in Industrial Engineering

Accredited Baik Sekali

0204/SK/LAM Teknik/AM/XII/2022

Vision of Master's Program in Industrial Engineering

To become a Master of Industrial Engineering Study Program that has high competence in productivity engineering in manufacturing and services and excels in competing regionally and globally.

Mission of Master's Program in Industrial Engineering

Education

Organizing high quality educational activities.

Lecturer Development

Developing lecturers, both in knowledge and skills, especially in productivity engineering for businesses in the manufacturing and service sectors.

Cooperation Network

Maintaining and strengthening cooperation networks with the business sector as a source of data and information about the needs of Master of Industrial Engineering graduates as well as making it an industrial engineering research laboratory for lecturers and students.

Research Cooperation

Promoting research collaboration between lecturers-students, between Master of Industrial Engineering Study Programs, and between Master of Industrial Engineering Study Programs and the business world, especially related to the scientific field of industrial engineering in the form of applied research.

Community Service

Promoting community service and the business world to face global competition by applying research results, especially in productivity engineering.

Sustainable Development

Sustainably develop the organizational system, curriculum, and management of the teaching and learning process of the Master’s Program in Industrial Engineering so that it is effective in creating innovative and globally competitive graduates.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Quality and Reliability Engineering

Supply Chain Management

Product Design and Development

Ergonomics and Human Factors

Contact Us
Master's Program in Industrial Engineering
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Almamater, Padang Bulan, Medan Baru, Medan City, North Sumatra, 20155

(+62) - 618219005

mtind@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara