MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Faculty Of Pharmacy Inaugurates 63 New Pharmacists
USU Faculty of Pharmacy Inaugurates 63 New Pharmacists
Published At
22 April 2025
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Faculty of Pharmacy Inaugurates 63 New Pharmacists
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 22 April 2025

"The USU Faculty of Pharmacy once again took the oath of pharmacist pledges who graduated in this even semester, totaling 63 people. Thus, the number of pharmacists who have graduated from USU is 4,493 people. This is not a mere ceremonial event, but you must realize the contents of the pharmacist's oath of promise that was just released earlier," said Prof. Poppy.

 

Public Relations USU—The Faculty of Pharmacy of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held a Pharmacist Oath-Taking procession for 63 Pharmacist Professional Education Study Program graduates in the even semester of the 2024/2025 Academic Year. The activity occurred in the 2nd floor hall of the USU Faculty of Pharmacy on Saturday (18/04/2025).

 

The USU Rector was represented by Vice Rector III, Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan, S.Si., M.Si., Apt. In her speech, Prof. Poppy said that this inauguration increased the total number of USU graduate pharmacists to 4,493. Prof. Poppy emphasized that the pharmacist profession has a great responsibility in pharmaceutical practice, so the oath taken is not just a formality but an ethical commitment to health services.

 

"The USU Faculty of Pharmacy once again took the oath of pharmacist pledges who graduated in this even semester, totaling 63 people. Thus, the number of pharmacists who have graduated from USU is 4,493 people. This is not a mere ceremonial event, but you must realize the contents of the pharmacist's oath of promise that was just released earlier," said Prof. Poppy.

 

Dean of the USU Faculty of Pharmacy, Prof. apt. Khairunnisa, S.Si., M.Pharm., Ph.D, who is a member of the Pharmacy Collegium, explained the role of the Pharmacy Collegium in assisting professional practice and invited new pharmacists to be active in the Ministry of Health program, and ready to serve in all regions of Indonesia, given the high need and inequality in the distribution of pharmacists nationally.

 

"Until 2024, the gap between the availability and needs of pharmacists will reach 57%, but this is uneven. Therefore, congratulations on serving in any area of Indonesia so that every Indonesian gets quality pharmacist services," said Prof. Khairunnisa.

 

Furthermore, Prof. Khairunnisa revealed that the faculty has provided quality professional work practice (PKP) locations so that students get the best experience. After graduation, communication and coordination will continue, and alumni can help the faculty organize the next PKP.

 

"We are looking for the best PKP places so that students get an even better experience. When they graduate, we still coordinate, and they also help us in the future for PKP," said Prof. Khairunnisa.

 

The head of the USU Faculty of Pharmacy Pharmacist Professional Education Study Program, apt. Dr. Dadang Irfan Husori, S.Si., M.Sc., explained that taking the pharmacist oath is an obligation that must be fulfilled by every graduate of the pharmacist profession program as the final step towards professionalism in the pharmacy field.

 

"This pharmacist oath is an obligation that pharmacist graduates must carry out in accordance with Law number 17 of 2023. So they have carried out the obligation to become a professional in the field of pharmacists," explained apt. Dr. Dadang.

 

As the best graduate, apt. Dian Febiola Pakpahan, S.Farm. expressed her gratitude and happiness for this achievement. After officially becoming a pharmacist, she feels a great responsibility to provide the best service to the community. She plans a career in pharmaceutical distribution and hopes to continue serving the community.

 

"I feel happy and grateful. There is a great sense of responsibility after becoming a pharmacist. Being trusted to serve the community feels like a burden. My next step is to enter the world of pharmaceutical distribution and be able to serve the community as well," he said.

News
SDGs 11
SDGs
SDGs 3
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara