MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
University Activity
Crushing Machine Support Zero Waste On Agricultural
Crushing Machine Support Zero Waste on Agricultural
Published At
19 October 2022
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
Crushing Machine Support Zero Waste on Agricultural
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Wednesday, 19 October 2022

The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) lecturer team conducted community service (pengmas) collaboration between the Mechanical, Electrical and Agricultural Engineering departments, which was held at Panti Karya Hephata, Sintong Marnipi village, Laguboti sub-district, Toba Samosir district, North Sumatra. The orphanage is also a gathering place for people with disabilities who will later be educated and trained to be able to enter the community.

Community Service chaired by Prof. Dr. Eng Himsar Ambarita ST.MT, with the theme of innovation and begins with providing consultation on the manufacture of animal feed that uses corn tumpi as a substitute for animal feed ingredients. This activity is aimed at helping the community implement zero waste technology by utilizing agricultural waste and supporting the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which is also a government program.

The team of lecturers and students in their activities carried out socialization on how to make animal feed from corn tumpi and provided an animal feed chopper as well as other supporting equipment to produce quality animal feed. Dozens of Mechanical Engineering students from the Universitas Sumatera Utara who were also present helped demonstrate how to use the animal feed chopper. With the presence of a chopping machine powered by a gasoline engine with a power of 4.4 HP, the corn tumpi can be cut into small pieces then further fermented. After this process is complete, then high quality animal feed can be produced. This machine has been tested for feasibility first in the Department of Mechanical Engineering, Universitas Sumatera Utara before being donated to the Hephata work house.

Prof. Himsar reminded, "Engineers must be close to the community and must be able to make things better". Prof Himsar hopes that the community can keep pace with technological advances, especially in the food sector. The head of Panti Karya Hephata, Reverend Binsar Nababan, welcomed the initiative from the Universitas Sumatera Utara lecturer team and hoped that the two parties would be able to establish better collaborations in the future.

The Community Service Team consists of Dr. Nauas Domu Marihot Romauli, S.TP, M.Eng., Hendrik V., S.T., M.T., Emerson Sinulingga, S.T., M.T., Ph.D and Ir. Morida Siagian, M.T., Ph.D., accompanied by Mechanical Engineering students. (RJ – ©ULC)

University Activity
Community Service Activity
Find More Activity
University Activity
USU Lecturer Concern on the Extinction of Orangutan Tapanuli
University Activity
USU professor turns shrimp shell waste into face serum
University Activity
USU Research Collaboration Lowers Stunting Rate in Sergai

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara