MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Faculty Of Dentistry (FKG) Service Team Introduces Herbal Mouthwash Products From Red Ginger
USU Faculty of Dentistry (FKG) Service Team Introduces Herbal Mouthwash Products from Red Ginger
Published At
17 November 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Faculty of Dentistry (FKG) Service Team Introduces Herbal Mouthwash Products from Red Ginger
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 17 November 2021

The dedication team from the Faculty of Dentistry, Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) introduced a herbal mouthwash product from red ginger. Decoction of red ginger has been studied in dentistry and proven to help prevent and reduce gum inflammation and plaque formation.

USU PR - The dedication team from the Faculty of Dentistry, Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) introduced a herbal mouthwash product from red ginger. Decoction of red ginger has been studied in dentistry and proven to help prevent and reduce gum inflammation and plaque formation.

The dedication team led by Dr. drg. Ervina Sofyanti, Sp.Ort (K) said her team had conducted counseling and outreach to mothers in Telagah Village, Sei Bingai District, Langkat, regarding maintaining oral and dental health during the Covid-19 pandemic, it was not enough just to brush teeth.

"The use of mouthwash is also considered effective as a supporting effort to prevent dental and oral diseases," she said.

She explained that antimicrobial mouthwash is safe and effective, when used after brushing teeth. Both methods are important for reducing plaque and gingivitis, which are the causes of cavities (caries) and bleeding gums (gingivitis and periodontitis).

"The development of herbs in maintaining health during the pandemic has become a trend because it is considered quite effective and economical. Socialization activities emphasize the importance of the role of mothers in maintaining dental and oral health, including families," she said.

In addition to providing counseling on how to maintain dental and oral health during times such as the covid-19 pandemic, together with service members, Dr. drg. Pitu Wulandari, S.Psi., Sp.Perio (K) and drg. Indri Lubis, MDSc and a team of students from the dental profession study program and orthodontic specialist FKG also presented material on diseases and disorders of the oral cavity which included caries, gingivitis, periodontitis, halitosis, and malocclusion.

The series of events while still adhering to health protocols began with counseling followed by socialization of red ginger mouthwash. PKK (Family Welfare Development) women were also trained to make red ginger decoction mouthwash.

This service is carried out as part of USU's vision and mission efforts in the downstreaming of USU FKG research results that are useful for the community. This activity is part of a series of activities from the USU Community Service Institution Assisted Village Program, chaired by Dr. rer. Medic., dr. M. Ichwan, M.Sc, Sp.KKLP. The success of this program is due to the support of posyandu cadres and the PKK women group as the driving team.(©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Humas - Humas

News
Innovation
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara