MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Mathematics And Natural Sciences
Undergraduate Program In Mathematics
Undergraduate Program
Mathematics
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Established in 1965, the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Undergraduate Program in Mathematics has become a unit responsible for in-depth education in mathematical sciences. Supported by the best individuals with high quality and integrity, our lecturers are committed to guiding students in learning mathematics as a whole, from geometry, algebra, to discrete mathematics.

Our Undergraduate Program in Mathematics aims to produce graduates who are excellent and competent in theoretical mastery of mathematics, as well as being able to apply mathematical knowledge practically. Graduates of our Undergraduate Program in Mathematics have broad career prospects, including as teaching staff, analysts, statisticians, financial experts, and actuaries in various government and private agencies throughout Indonesia.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

math@usu.ac.id

Undergraduate Program in Mathematics

Accredited Baik Sekali

5191/SK/BAN-PT/Ak.KP/S/VIII/2022

Vision of Undergraduate Program in Mathematics

To become a study program that has excellence in the field of industrial optimization and services that can play a role at the national and international levels.

Mission of Undergraduate Program in Mathematics

Computational Math

Organizing quality educational programs that support the development of theoretical and practically applied mathematics in the fields of Operations Research, Statistics and Computational Mathematics.

Development

Development in teaching, research, and service to optimization.

Service

Carrying out public service in the field of applied mathematics to improve the quality of community resources.

Link & Match

Fostering links and matches between universities, government and business (ABG - Academic, Business and Government) in quantitative planning and decision making based on mathematical concepts.

Collaboration

Fostering cooperative relationships with various parties, both from within the country and abroad to maintain the quality of teaching that is up to date.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Pure Mathematics

Statistics

Operations Research

Computational Mathematics

Contact Us
Undergraduate Program in Mathematics
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Bioteknologi No. 1, Padang Bulan, Medan Baru, Medan City, North Sumatra, 20155

math@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara