MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU's Covid Task Force Will Carry Out A Face-To-Face Meeting Feasibility Assessment
USU's Covid Task Force Will Carry Out a Face-to-Face Meeting Feasibility Assessment
Published At
17 January 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU's Covid Task Force Will Carry Out a Face-to-Face Meeting Feasibility Assessment
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 17 January 2022

"We will carry out an assessment first to the faculty to see how far the readiness of holding PTM Limited is. Faculties must provide hand sanitizer, thermogun, adequate ventilation, entry and exit for students, as well as technical students who will enter learning," Dr. Inke said.

USU PR - Preparations for a Limited Face-to-Face Meeting (PTM) of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) are being finalized. The latest USU Covid Task Force will carry out an assessment in near future to assess the feasibility and readiness of the faculty in organizing limited PTM. This was conveyed directly by the USU Covid Task Force Team, Dr. Inke Nadia Diniyanti Lubis, M.Ked (Ped), SpA, Ph.D on Thursday (1/6/2021) in the Academic Senate Meeting Room of the USU Central Administration.

Dr. Inke explained before the USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., that the preparations that must be made by the faculty in organizing Limited PTM. Health protocols to prevent the spread and transmission of Covid-19 are important things to be implemented and implemented in organizing Limited PTM. The USU Covid Task Force is committed to continuing to provide assistance and assistance as long as Covid-19 is still an epidemic.

"We will carry out an assessment first to the faculty to see how far the readiness of holding PTM Limited is. Faculties must provide hand sanitizer, thermogun, adequate ventilation, entry and exit for students, as well as technical students who will enter learning," said Dr. Inke.

Limited PTM is planned to be held with a ratio of 50 percent of students entering the room, while the rest are still doing online learning. Dr. Inke said that technical policy would be given to the faculty to determine the percentage.

“Faculties have the authority to formulate how the 50 percent ratio can be met. It could be with each class divided into two, or it could be alternately entered, and so on. The important thing is that the quota for each meeting is 50 percent. However, this also depends on the readiness of the faculty to carry out the Limited PTM itself," she said.

On that occasion, the Handbook for the Implementation of USU's Academic Activities in the Era of the Covid-19 Pandemic was also socialized. This book is a guide for faculties in preparing Limited PTM. It is hoped that later the faculty will be able and know the actions to be taken if a case is found in a face-to-face meeting.

In the meeting, the Rector of USU hoped that all parties could synergize and collaborate to prepare PTM Limited. He also emphasized that academic services can be carried out properly again by continuing to apply the health protocol to prevent the spread and transmission of Covid-19.

“The basis and guidelines are the latest circulars, where all educational staff have entered the WFO. Meanwhile for lecturers, it depends on faculty policies. We hope that we can provide academic services as well as possible," said the USU Rector.

USU Deputy Rector I Dr Edy Ikhsan, S.H., M.A., also added that the Limited PTM policy was carried out based on the decisions of the central and regional governments. USU interpreted the policy by preparing a Limited PTM.

"The basis for this Limited PTM is the Decree of the Four Ministers, namely the Minister of Education and Research and Technology, the Minister of Religion, the Minister of Health, and the Minister of Home Affairs. Also based on the Instruction of the Governor of North Sumatra No. 188 in 2021," said Edy. (©ULC)

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Management
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara