MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Faculty Of Economic And Bussiness USU 60th Anniversary, Rector: Transforming Tri Dharma's Tasks Must Become A Mindset
Faculty of Economic and Bussiness USU 60th Anniversary, Rector: Transforming Tri Dharma's Tasks Must Become a Mindset
Published At
01 December 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Faculty of Economic and Bussiness USU 60th Anniversary, Rector: Transforming Tri Dharma's Tasks Must Become a Mindset
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 01 December 2021

"That transformation in the implementation of the tri dharma task must be a new mindset for lecturers, students, staff at the Faculty of Economics and Business. Currently, transformation is needed to respond to three disruptions that hit life at the same time, namely climate change, industrial revolution 4.0, and The COVID-19 pandemic has created a completely new and unprecedented global uncertainty," Muryanto said.

USU PR - Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., attended the 60th Anniversary of the USU Faculty of Economics and Business (FEB) on Wednesday (11/24/2021) at the USU FEB Hall. In his remarks, he said that the performance of USU's FEB could be oriented to USU's Long Term Plan, USU's Strategic Plan, and the Rector's Priority Program.

"That transformation in the implementation of the tri dharma task must be a new mindset for lecturers, students, staff at the Faculty of Economics and Business. Currently, transformation is needed to respond to three disruptions that hit life at the same time, namely climate change, industrial revolution 4.0, and The Covid-19 pandemic has created a whole new and unprecedented global uncertainty," he said.

He explained that several things can be done to meet the transformation target, consisting of, first, transforming the curriculum review to meet the Merdeka Learning Independent Campus (MBKM) policy, where the important substance in MBKM is building bridging because of the gap between campus and industry.

He emphasized that currently many new jobs have emerged that have replaced many existing jobs so that in the end many types of jobs are gone. This needs to be prepared so that USU FEB graduates can adapt so that graduates can be absorbed by the industrial world.

The next point, he explained, is that the transformation of scientific products from USU FEB lecturers and students should be generated more from detailed and in-depth research on new economic potentials, by utilizing existing and unexplored natural resources, as well as local wisdom. He hopes that the forms of research, teaching, and community service can be sustainable.

“We have to improve various researches such as applied research, so that they can be applied directly. I hope that research, teaching, and community service must be in-line and it can produce comprehensive scientific products," he said.

Furthermore, he encouraged the transformation to become a digital citizen. All lecturers, students, and education staff must immediately migrate from manual to digital, because it is faster and more adaptive to respond to changes.

“In addition, the potential of the industry can be strengthened by developing a systematic program through "back to home alumni". The potential for alumni of the USU Faculty of Economics must be strengthened at this time, where various discussion forums that invite practitioners and professionals must be intensified, to obtain more benefits for students and lecturers of the USU Faculty of Economics and Business," he said.

In addition, he also prioritizes faculty facilities that can be improved. According to him, having adequate facilities will increase effectiveness in the administration and teaching and learning in USU.

“FEB is one of the priorities for improving existing infrastructure and facilities. I can't imagine how the teaching and learning process can be effective if the room does not support comfort. In addition, the administrative process can also run well if the facilities are adequate,” Muryanto Amin mentioned.

The event was attended by the Head of the North Sumatra Economic Bureau, Dr. Naslindo Sirait, who was also a resource person for scientific orations. USU FEB Dean and Deputy Dean, USU FEB Advisory Council, Chair and Secretary of Study Programs within FEB USU, Chair and Secretary of the Alumni Association and USU FEB Alumni, and USU FEB Lecturers and Education Personnel. (©ULC)

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara