MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Holds Workshop & Technical Guidance, Strengthening PR's
USU Holds Workshop & Technical Guidance, Strengthening PR's
Published At
25 September 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Holds Workshop & Technical Guidance, Strengthening PR's
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 25 September 2023

On behalf of the leadership, of course, I appreciate the holding of workshops and technical guidance in improving the competence and skills of public relations, "said Prof. Fidel.

USU PR - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held a Workshop on Strengthening University Public Relations and Technical Guidance (Bimtek) for AHD Preparation in 2023, entitled 'Strengthening Public Relations Management Through Competence and Competition'. The activity took place in the Video Conference Room Lt. IV, USU Administrative Center Bureau, on Monday (11/09/2023).

This workshop presented two speakers, namely Yayat Hendayana, S.S., M.Si. as Coordinator of General Substance, Public Relations, and Cooperation of the Directorate General of Higher Education and Research; and Doddy Zulkifli Indra Atmaja, S.I.Kom., M.Si. as Sub-Coordinator of Public Relations of the Directorate General of Higher Education and Research.

USU Secretary Prof. Dr. dr. Muhammad Fidel Ganis Siregar, M. Ked(OG), Sp. OG(K)-Fer, in his remarks on behalf of USU Rector Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos, M.Si., appreciated the holding of workshops and technical guidance to improve the competence and skills of public relations in website management and various other information channels.

"On behalf of the leadership, of course, I appreciate the holding of workshops and technical guidance in improving the competence and skills of public relations," said Prof. Fidel.

Information is an important means to open opportunities and provide opportunities for stakeholders to recognize USU's potential through collaboration in various fields. Therefore, the USU Secretary emphasized that the work units must have a learning spirit in following the transformation flow.

"Even though we are generationally behind, but nothing is impossible because we can learn with the spirit of learning to build USU," explained Prof. Fidel.

In line with that, Yayat Hendayana, S.S., M.Si highlighted competence, in preparation for competition. The competence of public relations, both in government and universities, is very important in providing public services through various channels such as social media, the web, magazines, and others. This competency is the main capital in carrying out the task.

"Yes, as we said earlier, there are two important things in the formulation. Before we can join the competition, we must also have competence," said Yayat.

Speed in conveying information is key in the fast-moving digital media era. For this reason, Doddy Zulkifli Indra Atmaja, S.I.Kom., M.Si. emphasized that the main challenge of public relations today is technological progress. Public relations must be responsive to technology and use technology as a tool for public relations tasks.

"Actually, there are many challenges, especially in this era, of course, with technological advances. We must make technology a friend so that it helps with public relations tasks," explained Doddy.

Meanwhile, Amalia Meutia, M.Psi, Psychologist as Head of the USU Office of Public Relations, Promotion, and Protocol stated that USU as a university that has achieved achievements in the Public Relations Award of Dikti Ristek, is committed to maintaining and improving USU's achievements. By presenting guidance directly from Dikti Ristek.

"So with the guidance that is presented directly from the experts from the Higher Education Ristek, we hope that USU's achievements will increase this year," hoped Amalia.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Management
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara