MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Mathematics And Natural Sciences
Undergraduate Program In Chemistry
Undergraduate Program
Chemistry
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Undergraduate Program in Chemistry is a provider of superior education in the field of chemistry related to chemical transformation and renewable natural resources. Supported by high-quality and experienced lecturers who have national teaching certification, our study program is committed to providing quality education so that students are able to have academic excellence in the field of chemistry.

They will learn about the structure, properties, and reactivity of organic and inorganic compounds substances, proteins, and others. Since its establishment, the Undergraduate Program in Chemistry has produced thousands of chemistry graduates who have spread throughout Indonesia. They have successfully pursued major careers as quality assurance/quality control personnel in various industries such as pharmaceutical, textile, cosmetic, oil and gas, and agricultural companies.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

departemenkimia@usu.ac.id

Undergraduate Program in Chemistry

Accredited Unggul

067/SK/LAMSAMA/Akred/S/XII/2023

Vision of Undergraduate Program in Chemistry

To become an Undergraduate Program in Chemistry that has academic excellence in the field of chemistry in general related to chemical transformation and renewable natural resources that can produce graduates who can compete at a global level.

Mission of Undergraduate Program in Chemistry

Quality

Organizing quality higher education in the field of chemistry that graduates who are able to compete globally.

Research

Develop superior research in the field of chemistry by utilizing local potential to produce technology that has global competitiveness.

Science & Technology

Applying science and technology in community service activities to produce a science society that is able to compete globally.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Inorganic Chemistry

Organic Chemistry

Physical Chemistry

Biochemistry

Natural Product Organic Chemistry (NPOC)

Analytical Chemistry

Polymer Chemistry

Contact Us
Undergraduate Program in Chemistry
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Bioteknologi No. 1, USU, Padang Bulan, Medan City

(+62) - 618211050

departemenkimia@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara