MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Vocational Education
Diploma Program In Chemistry
Diploma Program
Chemistry
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Diploma Program in Chemistry at Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) was established in 1995 and is responsible for vocational education in industrial and analytical chemistry development.

Our study program is managed by professors, doctors, and masters as outstanding educators, supported by the best facilities to create an effective and efficient academic atmosphere. The main objective of the Diploma Program in Chemistry is to train graduates skilled in synthesizing renewable chemical compounds, chemical analysis techniques, interpretation of analytical data, and understanding the environmental impacts of industrial activities and their solutions. Graduates of this program have broad career prospects, including becoming quality control and quality assurance personnel, laboratory analysts, researchers, and industrial practitioners.

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

prodid3kimia@usu.ac.id

Diploma Program in Chemistry

Accredited Very Good

619/SK/BAN-PT/Ak.KP/D3/II/2023

Vision of Diploma Program in Chemistry

To become a regionally superior study program and produce professionals in the field of laboratory analysis who can analyze chemistry and quality control in various products consumed by the public and industrial processes according to national and regional standards.

Mission of Diploma Program in Chemistry

Competent Graduates

Develop a teaching and learning process based on a curriculum and syllabus oriented towards the labor market's needs to produce graduates who have competence in chemical analysis and quality control of various industrial products.

Collaboration

Engage with government institutions and the business world to facilitate field work and internships for students.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Inorganic Chemistry

Organic Chemistry

Physical Chemistry

Organic Chemistry of Natural Materials

Polymer Chemistry

Food Chemistry/Biochemistry

Contact Us
Diploma Program in Chemistry
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jalan Bioteknologi No.2 Kampus USU Medan 20155

(+62)-618211050

prodid3kimia@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara