MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Momentum Of The 72nd Anniversary Of FK USU: Dedication, Innovation, And Togetherness
Momentum of the 72nd Anniversary of FK USU: Dedication, Innovation, and Togetherness
Published At
04 September 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
Momentum of the 72nd Anniversary of FK USU: Dedication, Innovation, and Togetherness
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Wednesday, 04 September 2024

“The theme is very appropriate, reminding us of the essence of medical education, which not only focuses on intellectual development but also the formation of integrity and empathy, said the USU Rector.”

USU PR - The Faculty of Medicine of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held the peak of its 72nd Anniversary celebration, entitled “Educating the Mind and Reaching the Heart, 72 Years of Enlightenment”. It took place in the 3rd Floor Hall of FK USU on Tuesday (20/08/2024).

 

The series of events began with the procession entering the session, followed by the opening of the open session. Followed by a report from the Head of the Committee and the Annual Report by the Dean of FK USU delivered to provide an overview of the faculty's achievements over the past year. The culmination of the anniversary celebration emphasized FK USU's commitment to continue to innovate and adapt to future challenges, including in the digital and AI era.

 

The Rector of USU, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., in his speech congratulated the success of FK USU in celebrating 72 years of contribution in the world of education and health. He emphasized the importance of holistic medical education, which not only prioritizes intellectual aspects but also shapes the character of doctors.

 

“The theme is very appropriate, reminding us of the essence of medical education, which not only focuses on intellectual development but also the formation of integrity and empathy,” said the USU Rector.

 

The USU Rector also highlighted the progress of FK USU in collaborating with various universities and institutions both at home and abroad. To date, FK USU has collaborated with 62 domestic universities/institutions and 32 international universities/institutions, including the University of Oxford and the National University of Singapore.

 

“Currently, the Faculty has 24 professors, 51 associate professors, and 309 permanent and 321 non-permanent lecturers. With these resources, FK USU is expected to continue to maintain the quality of education and produce superior doctors with integrity,” hoped Prof. Muryanto.

 

Dean of FK USU, Prof. Dr. dr Aldy Safruddin Rambe. Sp. S (K) emphasized that currently the world has entered the era of the industrial revolution 5.0 which is marked by rapid advances in the field of information technology. FK USU needs to take steps to anticipate and improvise by strengthening the internationalization chain characterized by the potential of USU's local excellence in accordance with the institution's vision.

 

“FK USU, together with all stakeholders, will always work together to advance education and health of all elements of society, in line with USU's efforts in Transformation Towards The Ultimate and achieving World Class University,” explained Prof. Aldy.

 

Head of the USU FK Dies Committee, dr. Anggia Chairuddin Lubis. Sp. JP (K) reported that this year's celebration included four main categories, namely community service, sports and arts, scientific activities, and ceremonial events. Eight community service programs have been implemented in various districts in North Sumatra, with targeted interactions reaching more than 2,000 residents.

 

“Scientific activities were attended by thousands of participants through seminars and webinars, while ceremonial events such as Alumni Night and Fun Walk were also successful. Thank you for the support of various parties,” said Dr. Anggia.

 

News
SDGs
SDGs 3
SDGs 16
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara