MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Improve Education In Law, USU And Peradi Sign MoU
Improve Education in Law, USU and Peradi Sign MoU
Published At
16 November 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Improve Education in Law, USU and Peradi Sign MoU
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 16 November 2021

“USU together with Peradi want to provide benefits for education, especially in working practices in the field of law. Students have the opportunity to carry out their profession as legal advocates," said Muryanto.

USU PR - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) and DPC Peradi Medan cooperate in the provision of education, training, assessment, research and institutional development, which are included in the realm of implementing the tridharma of higher education. This form of cooperation is contained in a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed by USU and Peradi at the Office of the Rector of USU on Thursday (11/11/2021).

USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si said, this collaboration aims to improve the quality of human resources, as well as support the development of skills, knowledge and innovation, especially in the USU Faculty of Law.

“USU together with Peradi want to provide benefits for education, especially in working practices in the field of law. Students have the opportunity to carry out their profession as legal advocates," said Muryanto.

Muryanto said that this collaboration is also part of the implementation of the Merdeka Learning Campus Merdeka (MBKM) program which provides opportunities for collaboration with various parties, including government, private and industrial institutions, as well as professional organizations.

“In the MBKM internship program, Law Faculty students will do internships in several lawyers' offices and can help with projects handled by Peradi. This will also strengthen and develop Peradi,” continued Muryanto.

Muryanto hopes this MoU can be followed up with immediate implementation, and can be formulated in detail regarding the concept of activities, implementation and outputs, especially in supporting the implementation of MBKM at the USU Faculty of Law.

On this occasion, the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Medan Peradi Branch, Charles JN Silalahi, S.H, M.H, said that through this collaboration his party wanted to participate in improving the quality of education, especially in the field of law. "After the signing of this MoU, we will welcome USU Faculty of Law students who will be doing internships, we will hold discussions," said Charles.

According to Charles, through this internship program, students will improve their understanding of legal practice. “Students will understand how the law is when it is operated. The law does not only memorize articles, but also has to be able to translate how to apply them,” he said.

He hopes that students will be motivated to improve their quality so that the USU Faculty of Law becomes a faculty that is considered at the national level. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara