MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Book Review "Bocah Kebon From Deli", Rector: USU Proud To Have Prof. Soepandi
Book Review "Bocah Kebon from Deli", Rector: USU Proud to Have Prof. Soepandi
Published At
30 November 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Book Review "Bocah Kebon from Deli", Rector: USU Proud to Have Prof. Soepandi
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 30 November 2021

The book "Bocah Kebon from Deli" contains the story of the life journey of Prof. Supandi, SH, which started from the story of a child who grew up in a garden environment in the Deli area until he was able to tread a very high career path to become a Supreme Court Justice and one of the Chief Justices of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Indonesia.

USU PR - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is proud to have alumni with a reputation like Prof. Soepandi who succeeded in combining the world of law and the world of education that was decisive in the journey of a nation. This was conveyed by the Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara, Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si in the book review activity "Bocah Kebon from Deli", Friday (11/19/2021).

The book "Bocah Kebon from Deli" contains the story of the life journey of Prof. Supandi, SH, which started from the story of a child who grew up in a garden environment in the Deli area until he was able to tread a very high career path to become a Supreme Court Justice and one of the Chief Justices of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Indonesia.

“We will also learn a lot from the characteristics of a successful law enforcer and a wise professor. This character is one of the goals of higher education in Indonesia," said the Rector.

The Rector said that this book tells the history of the relationship in the land of Deli, which was once controlled by the Dutch East Indies colonialists, until the time of independence. In this book are written and implied important messages, bitter and bitter of Supandi's journey to school from the village, from 'Bocah Kebon' whose childhood was a shepherd, then he was given knowledge from Scouts, then gave him valuable provisions in his career as a Judge.

In the field of law, Prof. Supandi has reached the peak of being a supreme judge and another peak was conquered with the title of Professor (Professor) bestowed by Diponegoro University.

The Rector said that higher education, including higher education in the field of law, requires a harmonious blend of theoretical and practical aspects. FH graduates should have doctrinal theoretical abilities and legal abilities and skills.

“What is presented by Prof. Soepandi is an ideal description of the profile of FH graduates. USU always encourages graduates to master these two aspects, so that they can produce more Prof. Another politeness that this nation needs,” he continued.

He added that USU has designed a number of learning methods so that its graduates are not only able to master theoretical aspects, but also have skills according to their fields of knowledge and play a role in contributing to solving problems faced by society and the nation. This program will be realized through the implementation of the MBKM Program.

“USU really needs people with the same type as Prof. Soepandi, a practitioner who devotes himself to the world of education,” he concluded. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Campus Life
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara