MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Rector's Working Visit To Faculty Of Agriculture Discusses Transition And Efficiency
Rector's Working Visit to Faculty of Agriculture Discusses Transition and Efficiency
Published At
20 March 2025
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Rector's Working Visit to Faculty of Agriculture Discusses Transition and Efficiency
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 20 March 2025

“We want to ensure that research and innovation continue to grow despite budget challenges,” said rector.

 

Public Relations USU- USU Rector, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si, visited the Faculty of Agriculture to continue his work visit in 2025. The activity occurred at the Faculty of Agriculture on Tuesday (11/03/2025).

 

During his visit, the rector highlighted two main challenges facing the world of higher education at this time: the change of ministry from the Ministry of Research and Technology to the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology (Kemdiktisaintek) and strict budget efficiency policies. This transition causes uncertainty in preparing academic and research programs in 2025.

 

The Rector said that USU continues to focus on curriculum decentralization by giving study programs the authority to develop curriculum according to industry needs. In addition, the increase in research funding is expected to encourage scientific publications and innovation, in line with efforts to increase the number of doctors in various fields.

 

“We want to ensure that research and innovation continue to grow despite budget challenges,” said  rector.

 

On the other hand, budget efficiency is applied to operational use without reducing the quality of education.

 

“Savings are made strategically, but the quality of education must remain a top priority,” said the rector.

 

Furthermore, the Dean of the Faculty of Agriculture, Prof. Dr. Ir. Tavi Supriana, M.S., said that the Faculty of Agriculture recorded brilliant achievements with scientific publications exceeding the target by 160% and adding seven new professors in a year.

 

“The achievements of the Faculty of Agriculture are quite a lot. As mentioned earlier, the scientific articles we achieved exceeded the target by 160% of what was targeted, and then the number of professors increased for 1 year. There were 7 professors,” said Tavi.

 

In addition, the Dean of FP said that the international class program had been conducted with assessments from ASIIN and FIBAA, with the results to be announced in April 2025. Meanwhile, preparing the 2025-2030 Strategic Plan is still ongoing, adjusting to the ministry's new policies.

 

Despite the challenges faced today, the Faculty of Agriculture is committed to innovating and adapting to maintain academic quality and competitiveness at the national and international levels.

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara