MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Hosts IISMA Partnership Meeting 2022 With University Of Pecs Hungary
USU Hosts IISMA Partnership Meeting 2022 with University of Pecs Hungary
Published At
11 February 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Hosts IISMA Partnership Meeting 2022 with University of Pecs Hungary
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 11 February 2022

According to Dr. Muryanto, synergy and collaboration between universities have important values ​​for providing social benefits, namely solving complex world problems such as global warming, climate change, environmental pollution, animal protection, and handling world crises.

PR USU - Universitas Sumatra Utara (USU) hosted the 2022 Indonesian Student Mobility Awards (IISMA) Partnership Meeting with the University of Pecs Hungary. The event was held online on Wednesday (09/02/2022).

Rector of USU Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si said, through this activity, USU will get more information about the University of Pecs Hungary and opportunities for collaboration that can be explored.

"We will all discuss with each other and try to find common ground about what fields and what kind of cooperation. We want to do with the University of Pecs Hungary, as well as collaborations that can be built with various other universities whose representatives are present in this activity, " he said.

The Rector added, not only in terms of student, staff and lecturer exchanges, but it is also possible for joint research activities. Other social care actions within the scope of science and technology, and other collaborations aim to improve the quality of education and human resources.

"Universities with so many academics in them must be present as an institution that becomes a problem solver for various problems in society, as well as in a larger context," he continued.

According to Dr. Muryanto, synergy and collaboration between universities have important values ​​for providing social benefits, namely solving complex world problems such as global warming, climate change, environmental pollution, animal protection, and handling world crises.

"So the programs offered in this collaboration should ideally also represent the big interests above, so they don't have to focus only on temporary interests," he said.

He hopes that this cooperation will be bound in a memorandum of understanding and cooperation agreement with clarity and strength. "This cooperation is directed to achieve a noble goal, namely to build a better world for all human beings and other living beings," he said.

On that occasion, the Chancellor also expressed his gratitude to the University of Pecs Hungary for the initial collaboration from the IISMA program, where one of the USU students had the opportunity to study there.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Humas - Humas

News
Kampus Merdeka
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara