MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Rector Invites Strengthening Collaboration And Internationalization In Morning Assembly And Halal Bihalal
USU Rector Invites Strengthening Collaboration and Internationalization in Morning Assembly and Halal Bihalal
Published At
09 April 2025
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Rector Invites Strengthening Collaboration and Internationalization in Morning Assembly and Halal Bihalal
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 09 April 2025

"Competition often causes wounds. So we'd better turn it into collaboration. Consolidation and collaboration is how we strengthen our rahmiah as humans," said Prof. Muryanto.

 

 

Public Relations USU - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held a Morning Assembly and Halal Bihalal activity in the atmosphere of Eid al-Fitr 1446 H. In this activity, USU Rector, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., invited all academicians to strengthen collaboration, consolidation, and the spirit of internationalization. It took place in the courtyard of the USU Rector Bureau on Tuesday (8/04/2025).

 

The morning assembly, which was attended by university leaders, lecturers, and education staff, was solemn. The USU Rector, in his mandate, emphasized the importance of maintaining human relations and minimizing differences as a form of practicing the values of Ramadan.

 

"Competition often causes wounds. So we'd better turn it into collaboration. Consolidation and collaboration is how we strengthen our rahmiah as humans," said Prof. Muryanto.

 

Furthermore, the USU Rector highlighted the impact of global geopolitical changes on daily life, including education. The Rector reminded us that USU needs to transform to remain relevant in the ever-changing global landscape. One strategy that continues to be strengthened is the internationalization program, especially at the study program level.

 

"Transformation from localistic to internationalistic is important so that our tridharma products approach the standards of world campuses. Our alumni must have globally recognized competencies," he explained.

 

The USU Rector also mentioned the challenges faced in implementing internationalization, such as limited understanding and resources. He emphasized that limitations are not a reason to retreat. Therefore, he noted the need for collaboration, sharing, and strengthening each other.

"Internationalization is not just a tagline, but a commitment. We must accelerate the learning process, strengthen those who have changed, and assist those in the process," he said.

 

Ending his mandate, the USU Rector also invited the entire community to maintain a conducive, calm, and peaceful campus atmosphere ahead of any internal campus contestation that might come. He hopes that the spirit of Ramadan and Shawwal will bring coolness to working and the USU environment.

 

"Let's keep the academic rhythm productive, safe, and comfortable. We apologize physically and mentally. May all our efforts receive the pleasure of God Almighty," he concluded.

 

In a warm atmosphere, all assembly participants shook hands and forgave each other in the Halalbihalal session. USU Secretary, Prof. Dr. dr. Muhammad Fidel Ganis Siregar, M.Ked(OG), Sp.OG(K)-Fer, said that this moment strengthened the spirit of togetherness on campus.

 

"The Rector welcomes all of us to forgive each other. This moment strengthens the sense of kinship and the spirit of collaboration. We need this to carry out our tasks going forward," he said.

 

The Morning Assembly and Halal Bihalal activities, with an atmosphere full of warmth and optimism, remind us that despite global challenges, USU's strength lies in its togetherness, commitment to change, and spirit of progress.

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara