MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
University Activity
USU Supports Marine Tourism On Karang Island Beach
USU Supports Marine Tourism on Karang Island Beach
Published At
27 April 2023
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
USU Supports Marine Tourism on Karang Island Beach
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Thursday, 27 April 2023

Seeing the importance of the selfie location at the Pulau Karang Beach object, a team of lecturers from Universitas Sumatera Utara through community service activities, set up a selfie spot that says "Pulau Karang Beach", to be used as an identity for tourists visiting the location. Especially after observing the high enthusiasm of the community and tourists to visit the tourist attraction.

Pulau Karang Beach in Sitiris-tiris Village, Andam Dewi District, Central Tapanuli Regency, has great potential for marine tourism to be developed.

The beach has several advantages, including clear water and many types of fish and coral reefs, which are a special attraction for tourists. Unfortunately, no selfie spot around this beautiful location is the tourist attraction identity for Pulau Karang Beach tourists.

Seeing the importance of the selfie location at the Karang Island Beach object, a team of lecturers from Universitas Sumatera Utara, through community service activities, established a selfie spot that says "Karang Island Beach" to be used as an identity for tourists visiting the location. especially after observing the high enthusiasm of the community and tourists to visit the tourist attraction.

The Community Service Team from LPPM USU is chaired by M Zulham Efendi Sinaga, M.Si, and consists of Yuan Alfinsyah Sihombing, M.Sc, Dr Susilawati, M.Si, and Samerdanta Sinulingga, S.ST, Par, M.Par, assisted by several students, namely Idham Sahdin Tanjung (USU Chemical Engineering Study Program), Riski Hidayat Pasaribu (USU Physics Study Program) and Abdullah Fakhri Hakim (USU Chemistry Study Program). The team hopes that a selfie spot in the Pulau Karang Beach area can attract more tourists to Pulau Karang Beach.

Pulau Karang Beach has a Village-Owned Enterprise (BUMDes) managed by the Village Government. It has a legal entity, which is expected to maximize the needs and potential of Sitiris-tiris Village. The location of Pulau Karang Beach can be reached in approximately 15 to 20 minutes from Sitiris-tiris Village by speedboat. During the initial survey, the team saw very few tourist safety support facilities during the crossing process to the service location. So, in addition to creating a selfie spot, the team also considered it important to assist in the form of life jackets and ring buoys as supporting facilities needed in the crossing process to the island, so that tourists can feel safe and comfortable.

The service activities were carried out in several stages from September to December 2022. In the initial stage, the team surveyed the service location, recorded all existing problems, and continued with the second stage of designing and creating a selfie spot. Meanwhile, the third stage evaluated all activities carried out and monitored other things that could hinder the service activities.

All service activities have been carried out well and have received full appreciation from the Head of Sitiris-Tiris Village, Rubiyanti Marpaung, and the entire local community. They expressed their gratitude for the assistance provided by the USU lecturer team during the implementation of the community service activities, which can help increase the enthusiasm of tourists to Pulau Karang Beach. This will also have a significant impact on increasing the economic income of the community. (RJ)

University Activity
Community Service Activity
Find More Activity
University Activity
USU Lecturer Concern on the Extinction of Orangutan Tapanuli
University Activity
USU professor turns shrimp shell waste into face serum
University Activity
USU Research Collaboration Lowers Stunting Rate in Sergai

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara