MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Ditmawa USU Holds Training On Tracer Study Call Center
Ditmawa USU Holds Training on Tracer Study Call Center
Published At
05 April 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Ditmawa USU Holds Training on Tracer Study Call Center
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 05 April 2023

After the sense of belonging and responsibility is created, the tracer study operators have the expertise to build communication with alumni so that they can establish a balanced relationship between alumni and USU. With the tracer study, alumni can provide input to USU, whether about the study process, study method, or study material, according to the needs of society and industry.

HUMAS USU - The Directorate of Student Achievement and Alumni Relations of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held a Training for Tracer Study Call Center. This activity, which carries the theme "Excellent Tracer Study Services at Universitas Sumatera Utara as an Effort to Improve Key Performance Indicator 1", was opened by the Vice Rector for Academic, Student Affairs, and Alumni Affairs of USU, Dr. Edy Ikhsan, S.H, M.A in Prof. Suhadji Hadibroto Hall, Thursday (16/03/2023).

This activity lasted for two days and was attended by every tracer study operator from the study program level to the faculty. In accordance with the theme, this activity becomes a routine in strengthening the capacity of the operators so that it can boost the achievement of Key Performance Indicator point 1 of USU.

USU's First Vice Rector said that the golden standard score on the 1st point of Key Performance Indicator point assessment is likely to be achieved with a tracer study. Through this training, tracer study operators can increase awareness of their crucial roles and tasks.

"We want to build a sense of responsibility for the staff in study programs and faculties. It's hard," he concluded.

After the sense of belonging and responsibility is created, the tracer study operators have the expertise to build communication with alumni so that they can establish a balanced relationship between alumni and USU. With the tracer study, alumni can provide input to USU, whether about the study process, study method, or study material, according to the needs of society and industry.

"Efforts to build communication, relationship, and intimacy between alumni and the university are not something we can do in one or two days. It is often forgotten that alumni may not be motivated to fill out the form if they do not have a sense of belonging, a sense of responsibility, and pride in being USU alumni," said Vice Rector I of USU.

Previously Ditmawalumni USU had carried out various activities to strengthen relations and communication as well as the sense of belonging of the alumni. In connection with this, Vice Rector I appreciated the hard work of Ditamawalumni USU.

"I appreciate what the Directorate of Student Achievement is doing to improve communication with alumni, and we have carried out various activities that encourage how alumni also have a sense of belonging," he added.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Alumni & Career
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara