MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU-Harvest Plus-Rahmat Indonesia Foundation Sign MoU
USU-Harvest Plus-Rahmat Indonesia Foundation Sign MoU
Published At
19 September 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU-Harvest Plus-Rahmat Indonesia Foundation Sign MoU
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 19 September 2023

The main purpose of this partnership is to improve the quality of human resources and open wider opportunities for the parties involved," explained Prof. Mury.

USU PR-Rector of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin S.Sos., M.Si welcomed the cooperation with International Food Policy Research (IFRI)/Harvest Plus and Rahmat Indonesia Foundation. Inaugurated in the form of signing a memorandum of understanding (MoU), in the Rector's Audience room, USU Central Administration Bureau Building, on Friday (25/08/2023).

The cooperation that has been signed will soon be followed up with the signing of a Memorandum of Agreement (MoA) as the basis for implementing the agreed work program. Especially related to faculties and study programs that are directly involved as partners.

In line with this, the USU Rector explained the scope of cooperation related to the implementation of education, training, assessment, research, innovation, and community service, which is included in the implementation of Tri Dharma Perguruan Tinggi or the Three Pillars of Higher Education. This can support the development of skills, knowledge, and innovation for USU students.

"The main purpose of establishing this partnership is to improve the quality of human resources and open up wider opportunities for the parties involved," explained Prof. Muryanto.

The Rector also added the award received by USU by The National Population and Family Planning Board (BKKBN), as a campus that pays attention to population issues. This cooperation opportunity opens up the development and incorporation of innovations in combating stunting. Of course, concrete steps are needed in innovative collaboration so that it can achieve optimal output.

"USU became a campus chosen by BKKBN and was awarded as a campus that cares about population. This is our opportunity to make programs to overcome stunting more concrete," said Prof. Muryanto.

IFRI/HarvestPlus Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Arun Baral said he was impressed with the very active and critical discussion session discussing the concept of fortification, micronutrients, and others. Therefore, Arun Baral is increasingly optimistic that USU will become a reliable partner in overcoming stunting problems to improve the quality of human life.

"I am impressed and pleased with the very active and careful discussion here. I am sure, this cooperation can work hand in hand in improving the quality of human food crops," said Arun.

On the same occasion, Chairman of the Rahmat Indonesia Foundation Dr. H. Rahmat Shah acknowledged that USU has a Faculty of Agriculture with qualified students. So, this collaboration was initiated to support innovative designs that optimize the implementation of discoveries sought to address stunting, malnutrition, and pregnant women.

"We know USU has a great agriculture and qualified young people. So it will be innovated with discoveries, research results that have been utilized in various countries," said Dr. Rahmat.

Therefore, the Dean of the USU's Faculty of Agriculture, Dr. Ir. Tavi Supriana, MS is optimistic that the Faculty of Agriculture is ready to be the initiator who implements the findings of the latest research to pave a broad road for field practice, to encourage sustainable improvements in foodstuffs to improve the quality of life of all levels of Indonesian society.

"We have a big hope, hopefully later we can apply the research results to the field. And the Faculty of Agriculture is ready to be involved to be the initiator to realize this program," hoped Dr. Tavi.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Collaboration
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara