MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Rector Visits Faculty Of Cultural Sciences On A Working Visit
Rector Visits Faculty of Cultural Sciences on a Working Visit
Published At
13 March 2025
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Rector Visits Faculty of Cultural Sciences on a Working Visit
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 13 March 2025

“We are now experiencing a kind of transition. During the transition process, which is still using the old reference, but there is a discourse to change it, we need to prepare later if the new policy is changed or decided,” said Prof. Muryanto Amin.

 

Public Relations USU - The Rector of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos, M.Si., made another working visit which took place at the Faculty of Cultural Sciences (FIB) on Tuesday, (11/03/2025). This visit discussed strategies to strengthen research and encourage academic innovation to face the dynamics of change in higher education.

 

The Rector said that the world of higher education is undergoing a policy transition and emphasized the importance of faculty readiness in facing the upcoming changes.

 

“We are now experiencing a kind of transition. During the transition process, which is still using the old reference, but there is a discourse to change it, we need to prepare later if the new policy is changed or decided,” said Prof. Muryanto Amin.

 

The Rector revealed things that must be considered in the new policy, such as the autonomy of study programs in determining curriculum and learning innovations that are in accordance with industry needs, and lecturer research must produce innovative products that can be applied in community service.

 

“The policy from the Minister that we discussed with him, the autonomy of study programs to determine the curriculum, allows the industry to make new learning innovations. Regarding research, funds are not cut, but diverted, focused,” added Prof. Muryanto Amin.

 

The Dean of FIB USU, Prof. Dr. Dra. T. Thyrhaya Zein, M.A. stated that this visit opened the lecturers' horizons, emphasized the importance of research in addition to teaching, and helped evaluate. In addition, the Dean explained, FIB has set a performance contract with the Heads of Study Programs and will conduct regular evaluations to ensure target achievement.

 

“This visit opens insights for lecturers as well as evaluating. We have determined the schedule for signing the performance contract between the Head of Study Program and the Dean. We will focus on planning and recording all the programs launched,” explained Prof. T. Thyrhaya Zein.

 

In academic achievements, FIB USU recorded several significant achievements, such as IKU 7 FIB USU, which has reached 94%, and student participation in MBKM reached 360 participants. FIB USU also has the most international classes.

 

Vice Dean III of FIB USU, Mhd. Pujiono, S.S., M.Hum., Ph.D. said the need to strengthen the culture of writing among lecturers as one of the steps of innovation in the future, as well as the importance of developing innovations that can strengthen the identity of FIB at the international level.

 

“What is strengthened is the writing habit of the lecturers. For innovation breakthroughs, we have PUI related to Songket. Maybe it can provide innovations to show the identity of FIB in the international arena in the version of Malay culture and so on,” said Mhd. Pujiono, S.S., M.Hum., Ph.D.

News
SDGs 11
SDGs
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara