MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Mathematics And Natural Sciences
Doctoral Program In Chemical Science
Doctoral Program
Chemical Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

As the highest study program in the field of chemistry, the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Doctoral Program in Chemical Science focuses on research in the fields of polymer and material chemistry, natural resources, and agro-industry.

Supported by the best teaching team and adequate facilities, the program creates a conducive and interactive academic environment for students. We are committed to producing doctoral candidates in chemistry who excel in research-based academics, and are able to contribute to the chemical transformation of the latest natural resources in the fields of materials, natural resources, and agro-industry with a global vision.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

dok-kimia@usu.ac.id

Doctoral Program in Chemical Science

Accredited B

020/SK/BAN-PT/AK-X/D/I/2023

Vision of Doctoral Program in Chemical Science

Becoming a Doctoral Study Program in Chemistry that has excellence in research-based academics and community service through chemical transformation from renewable natural resources according to the fields of excellence: materials, natural resources and agro-industry to gain global world recognition in 2030.

Mission of Doctoral Program in Chemical Science

Academic atmosphere

Carrying out the teaching and learning process of the Doctor of Chemistry Program based on advanced, focused and scholarly education, in a conducive and interactive academic atmosphere.

Curriculum

Develop teaching and research of Doctor of Chemical Science based on KKNI-based curriculum related to chemical transformation from natural resources and agricultural products into chemical products.

Innovative

Developing innovative chemistry that can contribute to a better quality of life for society in the fields of excellence: materials, natural resources and agro-industry in accordance with TALENTA USU.

Road Map

Designing a research road map, and research cooperation in accordance with the leading fields of polymer chemistry and materials, natural resources and agro-industry.

Seminar

Organizing seminars from research results and international standard publications, community service and providing consultations to overcome problems related to chemistry.

Public Service

Carrying out public service based on chemical science research in the form of counseling, socialization, and strengthening industrial packages, small and medium enterprises in the fostered community.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Physical Chemistry and Polymers

Analytical Chemistry

Inorganic Chemistry

Natural Product Organic Chemistry (NPOC)

Biochemistry

Contact Us
Doctoral Program in Chemical Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Bioteknologi No.1 Kampus USU, Padang Bulan, Medan Baru 20155

(+62) - 81260053435

dok-kimia@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara