MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Hold Morning Assembly: Budget Efficiency Without Sacrificing Academic Quality
USU Hold Morning Assembly: Budget Efficiency Without Sacrificing Academic Quality
Published At
25 February 2025
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Hold Morning Assembly: Budget Efficiency Without Sacrificing Academic Quality
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 25 February 2025

“This efficiency must be implemented without disrupting routine matters, such as academic and student activities. We must ensure that teaching and university operations continue to run optimally,” said Dr. Luhut.

 

HUMAS USU—Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) again held a routine morning assembly, led by the Vice Rector V for Asset and Business Management of USU, Dr. Ir. Luhut Sihombing, M.P. The main agenda discussed budget efficiency policies set by the government. It took place in the courtyard of the USU Rectorate Bureau on Monday (24/02/2025).

 

In his mandate, Vice Rector V of USU said that the budget efficiency carried out by USU was a follow-up to various national policies related to savings in state spending. He emphasized that despite a budget cut of almost 60%, this policy should not interfere with the continuity of academic activities, including the procurement of practicum materials, student activities, power, service subscriptions, and salaries for non-ASN educators and education personnel.

 

“This efficiency must be implemented without disrupting routine matters, such as academic and student activities. We must ensure that teaching and university operations continue to run optimally,” said Dr. Luhut.

 

One concrete step USU will take is to increase the use of digital technology in various campus activities. This includes using online media for meetings, reducing physical placards and banners, and optimizing video conferencing applications to reduce non-urgent official travel.

 

“For example, the use of physical banners can be reduced by switching to digital media. Business trips will also be considered more urgently. If information can be obtained through video conferencing, then the trip can be re-evaluated,” he explained.

 

Despite adjustments in the budget, USU Vice Rector V emphasized that this efficiency will not impact the continuity of the teaching and learning process. Instead, USU is examining the potential for strengthening hybrid learning models to increase flexibility and efficiency in the academic process. With the right strategy, USU is committed to remaining a superior educational institution without sacrificing academic quality and the welfare of its students and educators.

 

“We are studying whether implementing hybrid learning can be a solution to face various challenges ahead,” he added.

 

This morning assembly is important to ensure that the entire academic community understands and can adapt to this efficiency policy. In addition, USU Vice Rector V also underlined the importance of USU's role in driving the surrounding economy. With thousands of students and staff on the move every day, USU is not only a center of education but also a significant center of economic movement for transportation services to MSMEs around USU.

 

“This campus activity revives the economy, from transportation services to MSMEs around USU. Therefore, we must ensure that our budget efficiency does not reduce the positive impact that already exists on the surrounding environment,” he said.

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara