MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Designs Payment System With Electronic Money
USU Designs Payment System with Electronic Money
Published At
14 September 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Designs Payment System with Electronic Money
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 14 September 2021

USU PUBLIC RELATIONS – MEDAN: Besides having to improve the quality of its services t the community, especially students and the academic community, USU continues to strive to be in the best position in various rankings, both at the national and international levels. To that end, the Rector of USU has set a target of achieving 8 (eight) Key Performance Indicators (KPI) which must be met together. The KPI is a barometer of USU’s success, both as a quality service provider institution, and as a superior institution that can compete at national and international levels.

This was conveyed by the Vice Rector IV for Information, Planning and Development at USU Prof. Dr. Opim Salim Sitompul, MSc., in his direction at a routine morning call held on Monday (8/30/2021).

The key to the success of the Universitas Sumatera Utara in meeting the target of quality and superior services is the availability of complete, integrated data and easy access. In order to fulfill this data availability, the Rector of USU has also launched several programs, including One Data, System Integration, and Campus Digitalization.

“One Data aims to be a data repository that contains various information require in carrying out daily tasks. The One Data that we want to build should be an accurate, consistent, complete, integrated and up-to-date data source. The main problem we face in fulfilling these data sources is closely related to our efforts to continuously and regularly supply data to related information systems that we manage. Our first effort is to strengthen our operator officers who are responsible for data availability and updating. We also expect an active role from the heads of bureaus, subdivisions and subdivision heads to be able to coordinate and actively supervise in updating data,” he explained.

In regards to information systems, he continued, integration is very necessary so that they do not become separated and independent systems, thus forming “data islands” which make it difficult to access them.

“Un-integrated information system will ultimately make it difficult for us to search and report data, as well as analyze the data to supply information for university leaders in the decision-making process,” he said.

Another strategic issue in carrying out service tasks is the digitalization of campuses, which has been initiated by collaborating with the National Cyber and Crypto Agency (BSSN) cq the Electronic Certification Center (BSrE) by signing a cooperation agreement for the issuance of electronic signatures (TTE).

“We hope that through this electronic signature certification the e-office system that we built will further enhance our commitment to carry out the paperless movement at USU. as we understand, this paperless movement provides great benefits for us in efforts to reduce dependence on paper, as well as support the movement towards the creation of a USU Green Campus,” he said.

In addition to the administrative field, campus digitization is also targeting the electronic money movement. Several programs related to this have been started by building a Virtual Account (VA) system in payment transaction, both for students and lecturers.

“In addition to simplifying records, with this system we hope to build a financial system that is controlled, integrated and complete. We will also build other services in the form of ease of payment in the form of an electronic money payment system,” he concluded.

The hybrid event (online and offline) was attended by elements of university leaders, the Board of Trustees, the Academic Senate, the Board of Professors of the Universitas Sumatera Utara, the Rector and Vice Rector, the Secretary of the University, the Rector’s Expert Staff, the head of the institution/UPT/Work Unit/Head of Bureau/head of Division at the Universitas Sumatera Utara, the Head of USU’s KORPRI and the educational staffs of the USU Central Administration Bureau. (RJ/©ULC)

Author: Renny Julia Harahap - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Bayu Nugraha - PR

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara