MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Prof. Ridwan Hanafiah And Prof. Trelia Boel Inaugurated As Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Professors
Prof. Ridwan Hanafiah and Prof. Trelia Boel Inaugurated as Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Professors
Published At
02 August 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Prof. Ridwan Hanafiah and Prof. Trelia Boel Inaugurated as Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Professors
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 02 August 2021

USU PUBLIC RELATION-MEDAN: Prof. Dr. Drs. Ridwan Hanafiah, MA from the Faculty of Cultural Sciences, Universitas Sumatera Utara and Prof. Dr. Trelia Boel, drg, MKes, Sp.RKG (K) from the Faculty of Dentistry, Universitas Sumatera Utara, were officially inaugurated as USU Professors, Monday (6/28/2021). The inauguration procession was carried out offline at the USU Auditorium Building and was broadcast via live streaming on Youtube.

The addition of two permanent professors at the University of North Sumatra (USU) is expected to boost the role of the USU Board of Professors (DGB) to make the university's work program a success.The professors are expected to contribute to the internationalization of campuses as well as the development ofdownstreaminnovation researchand commercialization.

This was conveyed by the Rector of USU, Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., in his speech.According to him, Professors must stand at the forefront to encourage an increase in the number of researchand publications at USU.

“The development of downstream innovation research and commercialization must be a point of serious concern for the USU Board of Professors.Starting from the formation of a research group in a collaborative research scheme, we hope that a Center for Excellence in Science and Technology (PUI) will emerge at USU based on local wisdom but admired by the international community (local taste international).The Board of Professors must be the leader in initiating research acumen, downstreaming andcommercialization," the USU Rector said.

Undoubted experience and actions are expected to motivate other academics to be able to improve personal achievements through the implementation of the Tri Dharma of Higher Education.

"The Universitas Sumatera Utara has 178 professors, with details of 142 permanent professors who are civil servants, while non-civil servant professors are 36 people.This addition is expected to be able to increase motivation for all USU educators to carry out their noble duties inherent in the Tri Dharma of Higher Education.We also hope that in the coming years USU can continue to increase the number of professorssignificantly," Muryanto Amin said.

Furthermore, he said USU was trying to improve its ranking nationally and internationally.Effort and hard work are needed to be able to place USU onan international scale campus.

"Currently, as we all know, the University of North Sumatra has succeeded in being ranked 1201+ in the QS World University Ranking with QS Stars 3. We can certainly be proud of this achievement, but don't let us stop in increasing our efforts and mobilizing all our existing potential so that we can gradually achieve better improvements in thefuture,” he continued.

In addition, he also reminded that the pattern of organizational management needs to be updated, because many organizational management practices so far have slowed down the improvement of the organization itself.The USU Strategic Plan is prepared to serve as a guide for restoration at USU.

“The University of North Sumatra is currently carrying the spirit of total change to old habits that are no longer in line with the fast growth we want to achieve, in the corridor of internationalization of higher education, which is stated in the USU Strategic Plan.For that, of course, the same mindset, movement and steps are needed from the highest level of leadership to the lowest, from educators to education staff, as well as the entire academic community and alumni of the University ofNorth Sumatra," the USU Rector said.

He emphasized that at this time of course he could no longer stay in the shell of old patterns that were in his comfort zone, but had to move quickly with the right and measurable strategy to achieve all the work programs that had been set.

“Transformation Towards the Ultimate, which was just launched as the tagline of the University of North Sumatra, is expected not to just stop as empty jargon, but to become a spirit that is constantly ignited and ignited together to climb the ladder of success, which God willing will bring USU. to be one of the best universities in the world.This is a challenge that is not easy because the spirit asks all of us to change in various aspects, to be more disciplined, professional and not to let timepass in vain,” he said.

Change for the better is often easier said than done.He said the implementation of the transformation process would certainly require sacrifices and energy that was not kidding, which in the early stages would certainly bring its own pressure.

“The bigger challenge also comes from the Independent Learning Campus Policy which is currently being implemented in universities, including the University of North Sumatra.Curriculum deconstruction and relaxation are two important things that deserve our collective attention and must be completed quickly to catch up with other universities in Java, which have already developed andadopted them," the Rector of USU said.

On that occasion he also congratulated on the inauguration of Professors received by Prof. Drs. Ridwan Hanafiah, MA, and Prof. Dr. Trelia Boel, drg, MKes, Sp.RKG (K).He hopes that he will continue to play a positive and beneficial role for the progress of the University of North Sumatra in particular, and Indonesia in general.

The awarding of the USU Professor medals to the two new professors was carried out by the Chair of the USU DGB Prof. Dr. dr. Gontar Alamsyah Siregar, Sp.PD, KGEH (K), witnessed by the USU Rector and all the procession participants.Present at the event were the USU Board of Trustees, USU DGB, USU Academic Senate, USU Vice Rectors, lecturers and education staff at USU.(RR/©ULC)

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara