MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
11 Doctors Awarded Obstetrics And Gynecology Specialty Marks
11 Doctors Awarded Obstetrics and Gynecology Specialty Marks
Published At
22 October 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
11 Doctors Awarded Obstetrics and Gynecology Specialty Marks
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Tuesday, 22 October 2024

“This profession has a very big role in public health services. We hope that graduates of Obstetrics and Gynecology FK USU can make a real contribution to the country,” concluded Prof. Fidel.

USU PR - A total of 11 specialist doctors were given a sign of expertise or Brevet Obstetrics and Gynecology Specialist as well as introduced 23 new Specialist Doctor Education Program (PPDS) students in the Obstetrics and Gynecology study program at the Faculty of Medicine (FK), Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) on Sunday, (13/10/2024) at Santika Dyandra Hotel Medan.

The implementation of holistic Reproductive Health services for women is an important pillar in bringing the golden generation of the country. Specialist Doctors of Obstetrics and Gynecology (Obgyn) are the pioneers who fight for the right to health to achieve optimal health levels in Indonesia. Reducing maternal and child mortality is a high goal that every Obstetrics and Gynecology Profession wants to achieve. Prof. Dr. dr. Muhammad Fidel Ganis Siregar M.Ked(OG), Sp.O.G, Subsp.F.E.R as the Secretary of USU also mentioned that this profession is needed by the people of Indonesia because it is the frontline to improve the quality of future generations.

Prof. Fidel added that Indonesia will be the Center of Excellence in Reproductive Health in 2025 in Southeast Asia. By actively developing Indonesian research education, organizing services based on reproductive standards and ethics, and producing quality human resources through education with international standards based on Indonesian culture are the main points in achieving this quality.

FK USU is always committed to continuing to produce health workers who excel and have integrity. The hope is that graduates of the Obgyn profession can be dedicated to continuing to learn and develop, which will contribute to improving public health status. Prof. Fidel represented the appreciation conveyed by the USU Rector, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin S.Sos., M.Si., to the Obstetrics and Gynecology study program. He believes that the study program can improve its quality so that it produces competent alumni and can improve the reputation of the university.

“This profession has a very big role in public health services. We hope that graduates of Obstetrics and Gynecology FK USU can make a real contribution to the country,” concluded Prof. Fidel.

Education and health services are two things that cannot be separated, according to the Vice Dean I of FK USU, Dr. dr. Delyuzar, M.Ked (PA), Sp. PA., which was also agreed by the Head of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology FK USU, Dr. dr. Johny Marpaung, M.Ked (OG), Sp.O.G, Subsp. K.Fm. Medical ethics is the most upheld thing for the benefit of Indonesian society. Fostering good relationships with everyone, including alumni is a message given by the Head of the Obgyn Department to new specialists to add a window of knowledge.

The Head of the Obstetrics and Gynecology Study Program of FK USU, Dr. dr. Edy Ardiansyah, M.Ked (OG), Sp.O.G, Subsp. Urogin-Re. added that currently, there are 529 Obgyn graduates who have filled all provinces in Indonesia to join hands to reduce maternal and child mortality. With this many graduates, it is a matter of pride for the USU alma mater to continue to contribute to the Indonesian nation.

“USU is very proud to have alumni with integrity because they continue to contribute to the nation, which can be seen in the spread of alumni to several provinces in Indonesia, proving that USU's commitment to improving public health is very serious,” added Kaprodi Obgyn FK USU.

News
SDGs
SDGs 3
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara