MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Mathematics And Natural Sciences
Undergraduate Program In Biology
Undergraduate Program
Biology
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Undergraduate Program in Biology was established in 1988 with the responsibility to provide quality education in the fields of industrial biology, environment, and natural resource conservation. Supported by qualified and highly committed teaching staff, the Undergraduate Program in Biology aims to produce graduates who have global competitiveness.

They are expected to be able to conduct bioresources management and research, as well as develop products related to industrial biology, the environment, and its preservation. Graduates from this program have various career opportunities, ranging from becoming researchers, pharmacologists, biotechnologists, biologists, to ecologists.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

fmipa@usu.ac.id

Undergraduate Program in Biology

Accredited Baik Sekali

3772/SK/BAN-PT/AKred-PMT/S/VI/2022

Vision of Undergraduate Program in Biology

To become a superior and regionally competitive Study Program in the field of industrial biology, environment, and preservation of natural resources.

Mission of Undergraduate Program in Biology

Quality

Organizing quality education to produce graduates who are superior and regionally competitive in the fields of industrial biology, environment, and natural resource conservation.

Scientific Work

Carry out and develop research, community service and superior scientific work in the fields of industry, environment and natural resource conservation.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Morphology and Structure

Ecology

Physiology

Genetics

Microbiology

Contact Us
Undergraduate Program in Biology
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Bioteknologi No.1, Padang Bulan, Medan Baru, Medan City - 20155

(+62) - 618211050

fmipa@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara