MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Faculty Of Agriculture Conference Presents Speakers From Four Continents
USU Faculty of Agriculture Conference Presents Speakers from Four Continents
Published At
30 November 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Faculty of Agriculture Conference Presents Speakers from Four Continents
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 30 November 2021

Muryanto said USU had contributed to the development of the agricultural industry in North Sumatra Province through education and research. Education is not only for students, but also for the community in North Sumatra Province through outreach programs. Extension programs through non-formal education have increased farmers' education levels and agricultural productivity.

USU PR - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held The 5th International Conference On Agriculture, Environment, And Food Security (IC-AEFS) 2021 by presenting new and applied experiences in the fields of agriculture, environment, and food security. This conference was held by the USU Faculty of Agriculture by presenting 5 speakers from 4 continents namely Europe, America, Asia and Australia virtually, Thursday (11/18/2021).

USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si, when opening the event said, USU has contributed to the development of the agricultural industry in North Sumatra Province through education and research. Education is not only for students, but also for the community in North Sumatra Province through outreach programs. Extension programs through non-formal education have increased farmers' education levels and agricultural productivity.

"It turns out that extension programs that provide farmers with better training and farming methods seem to have more impact on agricultural productivity than formal education," he said.

He added, the theme “Precision Agriculture Technologies and Farming Systems Toward Food Security and Sustainability” was chosen because food is one of the most important daily necessities. The global food system needs to be resource efficient and sustainable.

"The application of precision agricultural technology and agricultural systems is one of the key coping strategies in the context of food security and sustainability," said the Rector.

Muryanto also explained that North Sumatra Province is famous for its superior plantation areas that produce oil palm, cocoa, tea, coffee, tobacco, coconut and rubber. These plantations are scattered on the east coast, such as Labuhan Batu, Simalungun, Deli Serdang, Serdang Bedagai, also around the west coast, also around South and Central Tapanuli.

"The two most famous agricultural products from North Sumatra are Sumatran Mandheling and Sumatra Lintong coffee beans, most of which have been exported to the United States and European countries," explained Muryanto.

Dean of the Faculty of Agriculture Dr. Ir. Tavi Supriana, M.S. said, IC-AEFS is an annual conference organized by FP USU which aims to bring together leading academics and researchers to exchange and share experiences of research results in all agricultural topics.

“This conference allows lecturers and students to disseminate their research results to the international world. Students will be greatly helped, research results and articles can be published in publishers indexed by Scopus, "he said.

In line with this, Conference Chair Riswanti Sigalingging, STP, M.Si, PhD hopes that the 5th IC-AEFS 2021 can provide an interdisciplinary platform for educators, practitioners, top managers, policy makers, and researchers to present and discuss issues, innovations, and the latest trends in agriculture.

"This conference brings together researchers from within the country and abroad so that new ideas emerge that can stimulate young Indonesian researchers and USU students, especially the Faculty of Agriculture," he said. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara