MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Graduation Moment Feels Special When USU Rector Sings A Song For Graduates
Graduation Moment Feels Special when USU Rector Sings a Song for Graduates
Published At
16 March 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Graduation Moment Feels Special when USU Rector Sings a Song for Graduates
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 16 March 2022

"The song “Melukis Senja” conveys that these graduates should not work and live alone, there are many people who can help their troubles and pleasures," he said.

USU PR - The moment of graduation this period was very special when USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., climbed the entertainment stage to sing a song to the graduates who were inaugurated on the second day of graduation, Tuesday (3/8/2022).

While playing guitar, the Rector accompanied by the vice Rectors sang the songs "Melukis Senja" by Budi Doremi, "Guru Oemar Bakrie" by Iwan Fals, and "Kemesraan" by Fanky Sahilatua.

The atmosphere was "broken", when the graduates were immersed in the songs performed by Muryanto Amin, who was young and dynamic at heart. It's not just for entertainment, but the Rector inserts special messages in the songs he sings.

"The song Melukis Twilight conveys that these graduates should not work and live alone, there are many people who can help their troubles and pleasures," he said.

Through his singing, the Rector also advised the graduates who had gone through the struggle to complete their education, that they should not handle problems alone, but still help each other with others.

"Oemar Bakrie's song reminds them of the teacher's sacrifices to them, even though his students fight, while his teacher's welfare is mediocre, he remains loyal to his profession as a teacher," he explained.

One of the graduates, Ramadhan Hamdi S.Kom, expressed his amazement with the rector's appearance who had entertained the graduates.

"Speechless, cool, the Rector entertained us with his singing," he said.

The Rector also sang along with two graduates when they performed the song 'Kemesraan' by Fanky Sahilatua.

For information, the graduation period II for the 2021/2022 academic year inducts 3,335 graduates consisting of 55 people from the doctoral program, 433 master's programs, 2 master's programs and specialist doctors, 84 specialist education programs, 93 master's degree doctor programs, 2 program people professional education, 2,380 people from undergraduate programs and 104 people from diploma programs. The graduation ceremony itself is carried out in four sessions over two days, where one day consists of two graduation sessions. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang, Muhammad Andriansyah - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara