MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Agriculture
Undergraduate Program In Aquatic Resources Management At The North Nias Regency Campus
Undergraduate Program
Aquatic Resources Management at the North Nias Regency Campus
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Undergraduate Program in Aquatic Resources Management at the North Nias Regency Campus is one of USU's study programs held outside the USU Medan campus. This study program teaches an in-depth understanding of water resources management with an emphasis on environmental sustainability.

Established in 2021, the program aims to train professionals capable of effectively and sustainably managing water resources in North Nias and surrounding areas. The curriculum is designed to combine theory with field practice, preparing students to become leaders in maintaining environmental sustainability through wise water resources management.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

psdku2021@gmail.com

Undergraduate Program in Aquatic Resources Management at the North Nias Regency Campus

Accredited Good

4553/SK/BAN-PT/Ak/S/VI/2024

Vision of Undergraduate Program in Aquatic Resources Management at the North Nias Regency Campus

To become a leading study program in North Sumatra, especially Nias Island, by producing professional graduates in the field of marine and fisheries.

Mission of Undergraduate Program in Aquatic Resources Management at the North Nias Regency Campus

Education

Organizing education that can produce competent graduates as managers, entrepreneurs, and extension workers in the marine and fisheries sector and can implement the MBKM program which focuses on student competence to face the workplace in industry 4.0.

Research

Conducting research in marine and fisheries to utilize and manage the potential of local aquatic resources of Nias Island and North Sumatra sustainably.

Community Service

Developing research results in marine and fisheries that are implemented in community service activities.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Aquatic Resources Management

Fisheries Resources Management

Aquatic Biotechnology

Contact Us
Undergraduate Program in Aquatic Resources Management at the North Nias Regency Campus
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Omasio, Lawira Satua, Kecamatan Lotu, Kabupaten Nias Utara, Sumatera Utara, 22856

+62618213181

psdku2021@gmail.com

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara