MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Guidance On Handling Discipline Of USU Lecturers And Staff
Guidance on Handling Discipline of USU Lecturers and Staff
Published At
20 June 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Guidance on Handling Discipline of USU Lecturers and Staff
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 20 June 2023

This BIMTEK is carried out to organize the management of Human Resources (HR) at USU. This BIMTEK is a follow-up to the socialization carried out last November 2022 regarding the implementing regulations of PP No. 94 of 2021 and Per-BKN No. 6 of 2022.

USU PR - The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) carried out Technical Guidance (BIMTEK) for Handling Discipline of Lecturers and Education Personnel (TENDIK) in the Mikie Wijaya Hall Room, Faculty of Economics and Business (FEB) Wednesday - Thursday, (14-15/06/2023).

This BIMTEK is a follow-up to the socialization carried out in November 2022 regarding the implementing regulations of PP No. 94 of 2021 and Per-BKN No. 6 of 2022.

In his remarks, Muhammad Arifin Nasution, S.Sos., M.SP, as Vice Rector II for Human Resources and Finance, said that this BIMTEK was carried out to organize the management of Human Resources (HR) at USU. Therefore, he appealed to all participants to follow the activities until the end.

In her interview, Dra. Syafnita Hanura Silalahi, MSP as Head of the USU HR Bureau conveyed what was behind the holding of this BIMTEK.

“Because of the many cases that occur in the faculty or SATKER (work unit), it concludes that must be handled by their direct superiors, because if it is not handled by their direct superiors, it will result in superiors above them. So it must be handled and given what sanctions in accordance with the applicable provisions, what the law is, in accordance with PP (No) 94 regulations that apply in the current law, “said the Head of the HR Bureau.

He also said that this BIMTEK was attended by 51 work units consisting of 16 Faculties Agencies and Directorates.

“BIMTEK participants are all faculties. BIMTEK participants are 51 work units consisting of 16 faculties agencies and directorates. There are also bureaus. The bureau that organizes the HR Bureau is followed by the Finance Bureau, the Cooperation Bureau, the Asset Bureau, the Sirenbang Bureau (Information, Planning, and Development), and the P2KM Bureau (Research, Community Service and Cooperation), “said the Head of the HR Bureau.

The Head of the Personnel Section of the USU HR Bureau, Eliza Ambarwenny Rahayu, ST., M.Si, expressed her hope after this BIMTEK was carried out.

“Of course, we can realize the vision of the university leadership, yes, that the leaders of work units within USU have strong competence in terms of discipline enforcement, so they understand and understand exactly how disciplinary regulations are applied and also understand that employee development is the responsibility of direct superiors, not all disciplinary problems are then submitted at the university level but can be handled immediately in their respective work units. So all university leaders have strong competence in terms of discipline enforcement,” said Mrs. Eliza.

This BIMTEK was carried out by the USU HR Bureau by bringing in five resource persons from the Regional Office VI of the Civil Service Agency (BKN) Medan, namely Dr. Janry Simanungkalit, S. Si, M. Si. as Head of Regional Office VI BKN Medan, Maslen Sinaga, S.Sos., MSI and Hotlan Sitorus, SE from the Junior Personnel Auditor, Pretty Biana Sinambela from the Performance Analyst, and Enrich C. Simanungkalit from the Middle Personnel Analyst.

Dr. Janry said that BKN's role in BIMTEK this time was to appreciate the things initiated by the USU HR Bureau, namely conducting coaching activities for civil servants and employees, especially related to employee discipline. He also said that this BIMTEK was said to be successful not only in terms of understanding the participants but also in terms of discipline-related problems that had received solutions to the follow-up of this activity.

“So with the completion of this activity, all employee discipline problems have received steps on what solutions will be taken, that's it, so it's not just understanding. In fact, this approach has been carried out by dividing groups to discuss disciplinary problems faced by each existing unit,” said Dr. Janry.

Maslen Sinaga, S.Sos., M.Si as a speaker in this BIMTEK explained the basis for enforcing the discipline of a civil servant, namely knowing his obligations and prohibitions. There are 17 obligations of a civil servant and 14 prohibitions. This is also the basis for determining the type of disciplinary penalty for each civil servant.

“Now at USU, we are very, very grateful because we really want and have a high determination to uphold civil servant discipline. We want civil servants in USU to become civil servants with dignity, performance, and innovation. Now, to be able to serve it all, of course, it must be supported by civil servant discipline. That's the material we peeled off until he was mild, moderate, and severe, “said Mr. Maslen.

This BIMTEK activity was closed directly by the Vice Rector II for Human Resources and Finance, Muhammad Arifin Nasution, S.Sos., M.SP.

 

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Public Relations Staff

Interviewee: Muhammad Arifin Nasution, S.Sos., M.SP - Vice Rector II of USU

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Public Relations Staff 

News
Management
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara