MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Collaborates With Kimia Farma To Develop Innovation
USU Collaborates with Kimia Farma to Develop Innovation
Published At
12 April 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Collaborates with Kimia Farma to Develop Innovation
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 12 April 2022

"With the signing of this memorandum of understanding, the relationship between USU and PT Kimia Farma can be closer and able to make a positive contribution," Dr. Muryanto said.

USU PR - The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) officially cooperates with PT Kimia Farma in the pharmaceutical sector. This was stated in the signing of the memorandum of understanding which took place in the Audience Room of the USU Central Administration Building on Wednesday (3/30/2022).

On that occasion, USU Chancellor Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., explained that the main purpose of holding this collaboration is to improve the quality of human resources, as well as to open up a wider space for the implementation of various activities that support the development of skills, knowledge, and innovation in the pharmaceutical and pharmaceutical fields. drugs.

"With the signing of this memorandum of understanding, the relationship between USU and PT Kimia Farma can be closer and able to make a positive contribution," Dr. Muryanto said.

This form of cooperation between USU and PT Kimia Farma is based on the tri dharma of higher education, namely, education and teaching, research and development, and community service.

“The cooperation is based on the tri dharma. After this, a discussion will be made in the form of input to Kimia Farma, from there it will be known what forms of cooperation are," explained the Chancellor.

This collaboration is targeted to provide benefits to Kimia Farma and USU, especially in the development of science for all students, especially in the pharmaceutical sector.

"It can provide benefits to Kimia Farma and USU, especially students and the interests of developing knowledge related to pharmacy," he continued.

In line with what was said by the Chancellor, General Director of Human Capital of PT Kimia Farma Dharma Syahputra said that the first step to be taken was to define the potential of this collaboration, such as conducting research, socialization between Kimia Farma industry and academic practitioners, as well as new product development.

"What is certain, later we will define the potential of cooperation anywhere. We see that there are several potentials as conveyed by the Chancellor, for example joint research, then internships, then later there will be sharing between the Kimia Farma industry and academic practitioners with each other. Then also includes the development of new products," said the General Director of Human Capital at PT Kimia Farma.

According to Dharma Syahputra, although focusing on the pharmaceutical sector, a series of activity that will be carried out later, will also open to all students from various majors at USU. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara