MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU And Chinese Consulate General Strengthen Educational Cooperation Through Guest Lectures
USU and Chinese Consulate General Strengthen Educational Cooperation Through Guest Lectures
Published At
26 February 2025
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU and Chinese Consulate General Strengthen Educational Cooperation Through Guest Lectures
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 26 February 2025

“USU is an extraordinary university with many talents. I came here to encourage closer cooperation between USU and universities in China,” said Zhang Min.

 

Public Relations USU - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) strengthened its academic relations with China through a Guest Lecture with the Consul General of the People's Republic of China in Medan, Zhang Min. The event occurred in the Senate Conference Room, USU Rectorate Building on the third floor, on Tuesday (25/02/2025).

 

In his remarks, USU Rector, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., highlighted the increasingly strong relationship between Indonesia and China in the education and technology sectors. He said that USU is exploring various forms of cooperation with universities and industries in China, including academic technology training programs in Singapore and collaboration with companies in Beijing for student training programs.

 

“Cooperation with universities in China provides many benefits for USU students, both in terms of academic development and international opportunities,” said Prof. Muryanto.

 

Meanwhile, Zhang Min, Consul General of the People's Republic of China in Medan, expressed his admiration for USU, which has more than 40 thousand students and has established close relationships with several universities in China. He emphasized the importance of cooperation between the two countries in building a stronger and mutually supportive global community.

 

“USU is an extraordinary university with many talents. I came here to encourage closer cooperation between USU and universities in China,” said Zhang Min.

 

Prof. Dr. Eng. Himsar Ambarita, ST, MT, as USU's Director of Internationalization and Global Partnerships, also emphasized that bilateral relations between Indonesia and China have been longstanding, evolving from cultural and trade interactions since the 7th century to strategic partnerships in the fields of economy, education, and technology.

 

“Hopefully, this guest lecture can provide new insights for students about the importance of cross-border academic collaboration,” he hoped.

 

In addition, Prof. Dr. Dra. T. Thyrhaya Zein, M.A., Dean of the USU Faculty of Cultural Sciences, said that one concrete form of academic cooperation is the Chinese Language study program at USU, which has received international accreditation. This program has sent alumni to continue their studies at Jinan University, who are now also lecturers in the study program.

 

“The role of the Chinese Consulate is vital in strengthening academic relations. Apart from giving public lectures, they also share knowledge through seminars and cultural festivals, which further enriches the insights of USU students,” said Prof. Thyrhaya.

 

The event also featured Mario Pascal, an RRI Medan reporter who shared his experiences on how the education system in China highly values meritocracy and opens many opportunities for those with competence. He emphasized that learning a foreign language, especially Mandarin can be a great asset in the era of globalization.

 

“Never stop learning, especially for students who are studying Mandarin. The world is opening up, and with the right language and skills, many opportunities await in various fields,” said Mario Pascal.

News
SDGs
SDGs 16
SDGs 17
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara