MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
34th PIMNAS - USU Students Research The Potential Of Local Nature For Cancer Detection
34th PIMNAS - USU Students Research the Potential of Local Nature for Cancer Detection
Published At
10 November 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
34th PIMNAS - USU Students Research the Potential of Local Nature for Cancer Detection
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 10 November 2021

One of the Student Creativity Program (PKM) teams at the Universitas Sumatera Utara who competed in PIMNAS made a work entitled "Utilization of Carbon Nanofiber Film Chemosensors from Kecombrang (Etlingera elatior) Trunks as a Prostate Cancer Diagnostic Sensitive Material".

USU PR - Prostate cancer is the sixth leading cause of death in Indonesia, with a value of 7.4%. Based on that, a team from the Universitas Sumatera Utara Student Creativity Program (PKM) that competed in PIMNAS made a work entitled "Utilization of Carbon Nanofiber Film Chemosensors from Batang Kecombrang (Etlingera elatior) as a Prostate Cancer Diagnostic Sensitive Material."

The students who are members of the PKM team come from different disciplines: Wardhani Septina Sembiring and Ilham Prayogo from Chemistry, Dhea Alviolita Warman from Agribusiness, Muhammad Nuh Alhudawy from Medical Education, and Yoga Pratama from Physics. They combined ideas from each discipline to create this work.

By utilizing the local natural potential in North Sumatra, the team led by Wardhani utilizes the stem of the kecombrang as a material for making sensors for prostate cancer diagnostic tools.

When interviewed by the USU Public Relations Officer on Friday (10/29/2021), Wardhani said that batang kecombrang has a cellulose content of 48.48%, which can be used as a raw material for making thin films.

“Kecombrang stems have local potential in North Sumatra but have not been used strongly, let alone as materials for sensor manufacture. Meanwhile, this content can potentially be used as a chemosensor,” explained the MIPA Faculty student.

According to Wardhani, the prostate cancer detection tool that already exists has several drawbacks, namely the cost, the procedure, which is quite tricky and painful, and the time it takes. "The sensor that we lift is a urine sensor, so there is no need to injure the patient to detect whether he is infected," Wardhani said.

Not only that, Wardhani also explained that the thin film chemosensor innovation has the advantage of being easy to do and more sensitive. The organic material is relatively easy to obtain and does not need to be expensive.

Wardhani and her team have uploaded their work as a journal as an additional form of output. They will conduct further research for comparison, and this product will also be patented.

“During the presentation, we got beneficial insights from the jury. The questions are unexpected but provide significant input for developing our products,” she said.

During the research process, several stages were divided according to each team participant's discipline.

"For the manufacture of tools, the process of making kecombrang as a material to preparation with a urine sensor, we divide the tasks according to their respective disciplines and capacities," she said.

Wardhani and the team expressed their pride in USU being the host of the 34th PIMNAS. She also thanked USU for guiding his team. He hopes his team can make USU proud by bringing home a medal. She advised USU students to continue to develop innovations and ideas to revive the research climate at USU. "We want to share knowledge with our fellow students so that this inspiration can be passed on to the next generation," Wardhani said. (©ULC)

Author: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Humas - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara