MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Rector Of USU Becomes Witness Of The Declaration Of The Integrity Zone Of North Sumatra Province
Rector of USU Becomes Witness of the Declaration of the Integrity Zone of North Sumatra Province
Published At
24 February 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Rector of USU Becomes Witness of the Declaration of the Integrity Zone of North Sumatra Province
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 24 February 2022

The declaration of the Integrity Zone was carried out in 41 Regional Apparatuses within the North Sumatra Provincial Government. The Governor of North Sumatra, Edy Rahmayadi, said that this was an important thing to do. He said that the plan for implementing this declaration was planned since last September.

MEDAN-PR USU: The Rector of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Dr Muryanto Amin, S Sos, M Si, was asked to be one of the witnesses to the Declaration of the Development of an Integrity Zone Towards a Corruption Free Area (WBK) and a Clean Serving Bureaucracy Area (WBBM) within the Provincial Government North Sumatra in 2022. This activity was held on Tuesday (22/2/22) at the Tengku Rizal Nurdin Hall, Medan. The declaration was marked by the signing of the Integrity Zone Declaration.

The Chancellor of USU was one of the witnesses among other witnesses. At least 11 officials became witnesses, namely the Deputy Chair of the Indonesian KPK, Inspector General of the Ministry of Home Affairs, Assistant Deputy for Policy Implementation and Evaluation of the Ministry of PAN and RB, Apparatus Accountability, and Supervision I, Head of Representative of BPK RI North Sumatra, Kapoldasu, Pangdam I/BB, Attorney General's Office , BPKP Sumatra, Chairman of the DPRD North Sumatra, and the Head of the Indonesian Ombudsman Representative for North Sumatra.

The declaration of the Integrity Zone was carried out in 41 Regional Apparatuses within the North Sumatra Provincial Government. The Governor of North Sumatra, Edy Rahmayadi, said that this was an important thing to do. He said that the plan for implementing this declaration was planned since last September.

“This is my will, our will together. It should be September. But a lot has happened, such as increasing Covid, natural disasters, and so on," he said.

He emphasized that serving the community is the main thing in the North Sumatra Provincial Government. He wants the people of North Sumatra to enjoy excellent service, which will boost the image of the North Sumatra Provincial Government.

“I don't want the culture to agree with what has happened so far. We don't know if this will actually work, but this is our intention. We start. I want it under me, good to eat, bitter to swallow. So all of us have to work well," he added.

The decision to encourage this implementation is his responsibility as the regional head. He wants local officials to work with all their hearts and also consider the consequences that will be accepted in the hereafter.

"Santi aji and santi karma. References that we can follow. This is the responsibility of the hereafter. I don't play games. I want halal. I want my people to be prosperous. This is not talking about politics, this is talking about right or wrong. During my time as governor there were 4000 rules. It is so difficult to enforce the regulations. Even though the trial process has also gone back and forth, there is no quorum and so on,” he explained.

He invited all parties to participate in the success of this declaration. Edy sees this signing as a momentum to create good governance. Considering that North Sumatra is one of the largest provinces in Indonesia with a plurality of people.

"Let's agree on this, we evaluate, we review. We control. Make this our guide to all OPDs. Impossible God will make it easy if we are dzalim. This is why we design signs to manage it. Tell him we weren't caught, but God knows and is watching over us. Without God's ease, this would not be possible," he concluded.

On the same occasion, Deputy Chairperson of the Indonesian Corruption Eradication Commission Alex Marwata said that corruption is one of Indonesia's big problems. Apart from the pandemic, the culture of corruption has become a scourge. Improving integrity needs special attention.

“Integrity goes beyond just good service. That is not corruption, by not benefiting yourself. Enough taste must be instilled. If so we will feel happy in service. Do what are your duties and responsibilities without thinking about what you will receive later. We have already been paid through salaries," he said. (RR)

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara