MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Hands Over Academic Position Decrees For Professors To 17 Lecturers
USU hands over academic position decrees for professors to 17 lecturers
Published At
26 November 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
USU hands over academic position decrees for professors to 17 lecturers
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Tuesday, 26 November 2024

“This award is part of the university's efforts to strengthen USU's position as one of the leading higher education institutions in Indonesia while increasing competitiveness at the global level,” explained Prof. Muryanto.

USU PR - The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) has once again demonstrated its commitment to supporting the advancement of the academic world through the submission of the Decree (SK) of Professor Academic Position to 17 lecturers. The handover took place in the USU Academic Senate Room, on Monday (11/25/2024).

The Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., said that the title of Professor is the highest academic award that can be achieved by a lecturer. The title reflects not only deep mastery of knowledge but also dedication to the Tri Dharma of Higher Education, namely education, research, and community service.

“This title carries a great responsibility to be a role model and have a positive impact, both in the academic environment and in the wider community,” said Prof. Muryanto.

USU has recorded an extraordinary achievement by inaugurating 68 Professors from January 2021 to November 2024. With the addition of these 17 new Professors, the total number of Professors at USU now reaches 167. The USU Rector emphasized the important role of Professors in guiding students, creating new knowledge through research, and inspiring colleagues.

“This award is part of the university's efforts to strengthen USU's position as one of the leading higher education institutions in Indonesia while increasing competitiveness at the global level,” explained Prof. Muryanto.

Prof. Dr. dr. Muhammad Fidel Ganis Siregar, M.Ked(OG), Sp.O.G, Subsp.F.E.R as Secretary of USU, highlighted several challenges faced in increasing the number and quality of professors. One of the biggest challenges is ensuring lecturers are able to meet the standards set to achieve the position of Professor, including contributions in the fields of research and innovation.

“If lecturers do not complete this process, it will not only affect themselves but also the reputation of the institution,” said Prof. Fidel.

The USU Secretary also highlighted the changes in criteria and standards set by the Ministry of Education, Culture, Research and Technology in recent years. With full support from the university, the spirit to continue to increase the number of professors at USU remains high.

“Professors must be role models for young lecturers. They are expected to be able to guide and inspire the next generation so that the quality of education at USU continues to improve,” said Prof. Fidel.

This momentum is not only a recognition of individual success but also shows USU's step forward in appreciating the academic achievements of its lecturers. With this spirit, USU is committed to continuing to support the achievement of more professors in the future, along with strengthening the university's role at the national and international levels.

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara