MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Scholarships
TELADAN Leadership Scholarship 2024
TELADAN Leadership Scholarship 2024

The TELADAN (Educational Transformation for Future Leaders) program is one of Tanoto Foundation's initiatives to build a resilient generation of excellence and future leaders to impact Indonesia positively. Under the program, the Tanoto Foundation provides tiered and structured leadership development support, global self-development opportunities, community service, collaboration, and networking tools, along with tuition support and living allowances.

First-semester students at 10 TELADAN program partner universities who have achievements in various fields, organizational experience, and demonstrate leadership potential can register for the TELADAN program.

TELADAN 2024 program registration is open from 17 August 2023 to 01 October 2023. The registration form can be accessed through this link.

BENEFITS FOR TANOTO SCHOLAR

Selected students will become Tanoto Scholars and undergo a 3.5-year TELADAN program journey from the 2nd to the 8th semester. During the TELADAN program journey, Tanoto Scholars will benefit from:

1. Leadership Development Support

Tanoto Scholars will jointly develop leadership knowledge and skills designed in a structured and sustainable manner in 3 stages. Each stage covers new knowledge, self-development as a leader, project-based learning, and career development preparation, along with opportunities to give back to the community.

The development stages of the TELADAN program:

2. TELADAN Development Circle Support

In addition to structured leadership development, Tanoto Scholars will also be supported to participate in enrichment activities called TELADAN Development Circles, consisting of:

Tanoto Scholars Association (TSA): established in each of Tanoto Foundation's partner universities as a platform/community for Tanoto Scholars to meet and interact as a new family.

Pay It Forward Initiative: one of the activities undertaken by TSA is to have a direct and continuous positive impact on the surrounding communities where Tanoto Scholars live.

Tanoto Scholars Gathering (TSG): an annual activity that brings together Tanoto Scholars from all partner universities to conduct self-development activities as a transition from the Lead Self to Lead Others stage.

Tanoto Student Research Award (TSRA): annual activities in the form of financial support and research training for students at partner universities, and open to students at the partner universities.

Internship: opportunities for Tanoto Scholars to gain internship experience at the Tanoto Foundation, the Royal Golden Eagle (RGE) group of companies, or other partner industries.

Sponsorship: opportunities for Tanoto Scholars to receive additional financial support to participate in competitions, conferences, and competency development certifications for domestic and international career preparation.

Global Experiences Program: opportunities for outstanding Tanoto Scholars to gain global experience and build international networks through short-term programs domestically and internationally, such as summer courses, exchange programs, volunteering, and more.

3. Tuition Support and Living Allowance

While active as Tanoto Scholars, full tuition fees will be paid directly to Tanoto Foundation partner universities. In addition, a monthly living allowance is also provided and will be given directly to Tanoto Scholars.

4. Alumni Network in Indonesia and Globally

Upon graduation, Tanoto Scholars will join the Tanoto Foundation's alumni network of scholarship recipients spread across Indonesia and the world. In the alumni network, in addition to being connected to inspire each other, there are also professional development activities and capacity building in line with the needs of the developing world.

APPLICANT REQUIREMENTS

Indonesian nationality.

Registered as a regular undergraduate student in their first semester at one of TELADAN's partner universities.

Committed to participating in the Leadership Development Program during the TELADAN Program period (2nd Semester – 8th Semester).

Demonstrate solid leadership potential and be committed to contributing to society and nation-building.

Fluency in Bahasa Indonesia — proficiency in English and other international languages will be a plus.

Have academic achievements (minimum average score of 12th-grade report card of SMA/SMK/MA is 8 out of a scale of 10) and non-academic achievements such as experience in student organizations, social communities, or other related.

Not currently receiving scholarships or participating in other financial support programs, and willing not to receive scholarships or other financial programs or similar leadership development programs if selected in the TELADAN program.

Register online on the Tanoto Foundation website.

Selection Phases and Important Dates

Scholarship Schedule
Registration	17 Agustus 2023 - 01 Oktober 2023 (23:59)
Selection Process	06 Oktober 2023 - 22 Desember 2023 (10:00)
Announcements	25 January 2024
Status	Closed
Show More

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara