MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Minister Of Education Pra Diksar, WR II: Instill A Sense Of Love For The Country
USU Minister of Education Pra Diksar, WR II: Instill a sense of love for the country
Published At
01 December 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Minister of Education Pra Diksar, WR II: Instill a sense of love for the country
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 01 December 2021

"Menwa is also part of the campus academic community who plays a role in building the mindset of the community in terms of the importance of awareness of love for the homeland and efforts to defend the country," said WR II.

USU PR - Student Regiment (Menwa) Battalion-A USU/KP held Pre-Basic Education (Diksar) Phase II for Candidate Members of Menwa Battalion-A USU/KP on 26-28 November 2021. This activity aims to provide basic knowledge and skills regarding the unit student activities and can understand correctly what to do when later appointed as a member of the USU Menwa.

In the opening ceremony on Friday (11/26/2021), USU Vice Rector II (WR II) Muhammad Arifin Nasution, S.Sos., M.S.P. said, Menwa is an educational regiment in accordance with the Tri Dharma of Higher Education to produce scholars who have a chivalrous character and are full of dedication.

In the pre-disaster activity, WR II advised to always instill a sense of love for the homeland, being proud to be a patriotic and independent Indonesia. "Menwa is also part of the campus academic community who plays a role in building the mindset of the community in terms of the importance of awareness of love for the homeland and efforts to defend the country," said WR II.

Menwa serves as a forum for student participation in the effort to defend the country, channeling student potential and developing values, attitudes, behavior, skills and independence through a pattern of discipline and skill training, as a manifestation of the implementation of the rights and obligations of every citizen of the Republic of Indonesia.

"Members of the Menwa can be prepared as "Dwi Warna Purwa Cendikia Wusana" namely patriotic, independent people and have a high awareness of defending the country in order to realize national resilience," said WR II.

According to him, this is in accordance with the motto of the Indonesian Student Regiment, namely "Widya astrena Dharma Siddha", derived from Sanskrit which means "Completion of Obligations with Science and Soldier Science".

“I appreciate the implementation of this Pre-Basic Education activity as a form of student creativity, perfection of service with science and soldiering. Where it contains learning and character building. Besides that, it also forms physically and spiritually healthy and pious to God," he continued.

He hopes that, through this activity, all participants will be able to gain valuable knowledge and improve their physical, psychological and intellectual qualities, which are fully utilized for human life.

"At the same time, it also supports the efforts of the Universitas Sumatera Utara to give birth to a superior generation of the nation," he hoped. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Rizki Hakim Lubis - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara