MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Rector: Study Programs, Faculties And Rectory Must Have The Same Mindset And Rhythm
USU Rector: Study Programs, Faculties and Rectory Must Have the Same Mindset and Rhythm
Published At
14 July 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Rector: Study Programs, Faculties and Rectory Must Have the Same Mindset and Rhythm
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 14 July 2021

MEDAN-USU PUBLIC RELATION: Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) hopes to move quickly in catching up with other Incorporated Government University (PTN-BH) in cluster 1 of the Ministry of Education, Culture, Research and Technology version of the university rankings. The potential of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) to penetrate the 1,000 World University Rankings and the top 10 national PTN-BH ranks is very large and can be maximized. That requires a mindset and rhythm together between courses, faculty and the rector.

This was confirmed by the Rector of USU Dr. Muryanto Amin, S Sos, M Si, in the Faculty of Medicine working meeting which took place in the Hall of the USU Faculty of Medicine, Friday (18/06/2021).According to him, study programs must have measurable performance targets, so that they can support university.

Currentlyheadmits thatheis reviewing the Faculty's Work Plan and Budget (RKA) because there are still many that are inefficient and not in line with the rector's work program.Incorrect datawill becorrected as soon as possible.In addition,hestated that all obstacles or problems in study programs and faculties that are considered difficult to achieve the targets in the rector's work program will be discussed together and find out the solutions.

“Besides, there are problems in governance.There is a disparity between university and faculty leaders and available human resources.Human resource capabilities are often not able to followwhatis desired by the leadership.For that wewillchange governance and try to create a new structure to increase productivity and achievement of work programs.Employees will be appreciated according to the work done," Dr. Muryanto said.

According to Dr. Muryanto, the adaptation of the three dharma task also needs to be adapted to the interests of commercial universities.“University scientific products must be designed to support higher education funding.For that we must improve our teaching system.Because teaching, research and service must be in line in order to achieve down-streaming product and commercialization," he said.

No less important, continued Dr. Muryanto, the experience of practitioners who are well utilized for the benefit of the university, namely by inviting professionals to teach.Their experience needs to be utilized so that students get the best experience from them.Inviting practicing lecturerswillalsoadd points in the assessment for the World University Ranking.

The Rector was accompanied by, among others, USU Vice Rector III Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan, S.Si, M.Si, Apt, Vice Rector IV Prof. Drs. Opim Salim Sitompul, M.Sc and Vice Rector V Ir Luhut Sihombing, MP, Head of Information Systems Center Muhammad Anggia Muchtar, ST, MMIT, Head of Quality Management Unit Dr. Dr. Isti Ilmiati Fujiati, M Sc, CMFM, M Pd, Ked.Meanwhile, from the USU Faculty of Medicine, the Dean Prof Dr dr Aldy Safruddin Rambe, Sp.S(K), Deputy Dean I Dr. dr. Delyuzar, M.Ked (PA), Sp PA (K), Deputy Dean II Dr. dr. Muara PanusunanLubis, M. Ked attended (OG), Sp OG (K), and Deputy Dean III dr. Inke Nadia Diniyanti Lubis, M.Ked (Ped), Sp.A, PhD.

The Rector also emphasized the need for infrastructure arrangement within the university.There must be standardization of lecturer rooms, toilets,gardensand a clear master plan."Currently we have formed USU Exist which is in charge of carrying out the arrangement.They will coordinate with the heads of faculties and study programs on better infrastructure arrangements,” said the Rector.

The Rector emphasized that strengthening in the field of applied research must also be encouraged by 60% and basic research by 40% to achieve the campus enterprise program."Our scientific products must be directed to business interests as part of the downstream and commercialization plan," he said.

Dr. Mury emphasized that current partner cooperation is focused on long-term cooperation and joint ventures for the development of scientific products, which produce research and academic and non-academic publications, and raise funds.

“One data is very important at this time.If we don't start now, itwill bedifficult for us to be in the top 10 nationally and in the world's 1,000.Because the data of study programs and faculties must be in line with the rectorate bureaucracy.The study program is the spearhead," said Dr Mury underlined.

Website development, responses to public complaints through the LAPOR application, international publications, internationalcooperation, both foreign students and lecturers are also things that must be prioritized in the work programs of faculties and study programs.

Author: Renny Julia Harahap - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Rizki Hakim Lubis - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara