MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Kokedama And Capillary System Plant Cultivation, Bioenterpreneurship For Orphanage Empowerment
Kokedama and Capillary System Plant Cultivation, Bioenterpreneurship for Orphanage Empowerment
Published At
26 August 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Kokedama and Capillary System Plant Cultivation, Bioenterpreneurship for Orphanage Empowerment
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 26 August 2021

USU PUBLIC RELATIONS – MEDAN : The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) through the 2021 Regular Year Mono Partnership Scheme Community Service Program provides guidance to the Bumi Nusantara Orphanage on Jalan Perjuangan Tanjung Rejo, Medan Sunggal Subdistrict, Medan City, to carry out an orphanage empowerment program through bioenterpreneurship of Kokedama and Capillary System Cultivation, Saturday (8/14/2021).

The community Service Team consisting of Dr. Ir. Yaya Hasanah, M.Si., Dr. Ir. Lisa Mawarni, MP and Dr. Ir. Hamidah Hanum, MP, accompanied by the USU Student Activity Unit (UKM), Himadita Nursery, conducted community empowerment training in making Kokedema and Capillary System Cultivation.

Dr. Yaya Hasanah as the head of the service team said that this activity was a form of USU’s concern in an effort to improve the empowerment and welfare of the orphanage, by utilizing the limited land owned by the orphanage for urban agricultural activities. It is hoped that this activity will foster the indepence of the orphanage economically, as well as the provision of skills for ophanage children in entrepreneurship through urban farming-based plant cultivation which was very good prospects for development

“This program is carried out to foster the independence of the orphanage and in the continuation of this activity, the service team collaborates with the administrators of the Bumi Nusantara Orphanage and the orphanage children as implementers. This program is also an implementation of USU’s concern for the community,” Yaya Hasanah said.

Furthermore, Yaya Hasanah explained that Kokedama and Capillary System Cultivation are not difficult to do because the material required are available in the environment around the orphanage. Kokedama is a technique and art of planting from Japan, derived from the word “koke”, which means ball and “dama” mean moss. Linguistacally, kokedama means “moss ball”. This planting technique places the plant in a ball of soil, then wraps it in moss and binds it with rope. Its function is to beautify the shape of the plant and minimize the level of plant watering, so there is no need to water the plants every day. Generally, this plant is placed on a plate/placemat or hung. Meanwhile, capillary system cultivation is a model of plant cultivation in polybags/containers that are given continuous access to water through a capillary system, for example capillaries made of flannel. At first glance this system is similar to the Wick hydrophonic system, where plants are grown on media that is given an axis.

The children and the caretakers of the orphanage were very enthusiastic and interested in participating in the kokedama training and the capillary system plant cultivation. The service team continues to provide assistance in the sustainability of this activity in the future. In the activity, the service team submitted posters on how to make kokedama and capillary system cultivation, as well as materials for making kokedama and capillary system cultivation, so that the orphanage children are able to continue to do this on an ongoing basis and accompanied by the service team. The results of kokedama and capillary system cultivation resulting from the training are directly placed in the orphanage yard, thus adding the beauty of the environment and the beauty of the orphanage.((C)ULC)

Author: Renny Julia Harahap - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Lembaga Pengabdian Kepada Masyarakat (LPPM) - -

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara