MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU And PT Pegadaian Launch Internship Program And Public Lecture
USU and PT Pegadaian Launch Internship Program and Public Lecture
Published At
19 June 2024
Published By
Muhammad Fachrozy
USU and PT Pegadaian Launch Internship Program and Public Lecture
 

Published by

Muhammad Fachrozy

Published at

Wednesday, 19 June 2024

Today's audience session is part of the follow-up to a long-established collaboration. Today, we are adding more activities to the partnership with plans for a public lecture and a socialization program about Pegadaian," stated Prof. Poppy.

USU PR – Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) strengthens its collaboration with PT Pegadaian. USU's Vice Rector III, Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan, S.Si., M.Si., Apt., held an audience with Beni Martina Maulan, Regional Head of PT Pegadaian, Kanwil I Medan, at the USU Rector's Audience Room on Wednesday (06/19/2024).

Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan, S.Si., M.Si., Apt., explained that the meeting serves as a follow-up to the long-standing collaboration. The partnership between USU and Pegadaian began with the establishment of the DGD Creative Lounge and student internship programs at Pegadaian. Currently, the cooperation is being expanded with additional activities, such as public lectures and socialization programs about Pegadaian.

"Today's audience session is part of the follow-up to a long-established collaboration. Today, we are adding more activities to the partnership with plans for a public lecture and a socialization program about Pegadaian," stated Prof. Poppy.

Furthermore, Prof. Poppy mentioned plans for a new project to enhance student competencies. The project is still in the planning and development phase, but it will form part of a structured and sustainable internship program between USU students and Pegadaian.

"We have discussed with the Rector and Mr. Beni about a new project to improve student competencies," added Prof. Poppy.

Meanwhile, Beni Martina Maulan, Regional Head of PT Pegadaian Kanwil I Medan, expressed hope that this collaboration could produce integrated and systematic programs to meet the human resource needs of Pegadaian, as the company now operates as a publicly accessible industry.

"We hope this collaboration can result in integrated and systematic proposals to fulfill human resource needs at Pegadaian since the company is now an industry open to the public," stated Beni.

Beni Martina Maulan also added that the internship program has been running annually, and they aim to add one specific competency to ensure that graduates are work-ready and can immediately contribute to Pegadaian. To achieve this, they plan to propose curriculum adjustments to USU to align with Pegadaian’s needs as the end-user.

"Our internship program has been running annually. We aim to add one specific competency so that when students graduate, they are work-ready and can directly contribute to Pegadaian," he explained.

The collaboration between USU and PT Pegadaian is expected to bring significant benefits in producing graduates who are work-ready and equipped with competencies tailored to industry needs. The planned internship program and public lecture mark a concrete step toward improving the quality of education and skills among USU students.

Author: Bambang Riyanto – PRInterviewee: Prof. Poppy Anjelisa – Vice Rector III, USUPhotographer: Amri Simatupang – PR

News
SDGs 4
SDGs
SDGs 8
SDGs 17
Collaboration
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara