MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Social Science And Political Science
Undergraduate Program In Communication Science
Undergraduate Program
Communication Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Established in 1983, the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Undergraduate Program in Communication Science is a center of excellence for higher education in communication science that focuses on public speaking, literacy, media production, advertising, and other communication sciences.

With the assistance of the best individuals who are strongly determined as educators, communication science learning is designed to help students convey messages effectively by creating a pleasant learning atmosphere. Graduates of the Undergraduate Program in Communication Science have a wide range of job prospects, including media frontliners, event organizers, public speakers, and news presenters in journalism.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

fisip@usu.ac.id

Undergraduate Program in Communication Science

Accredited Excellent

No. 376/SK/BAN-PT/Ak-PPJ/S/I/2022

Vision of Undergraduate Program in Communication Science

To become a communication science education center that produces graduates competent in Journalism, Public Relations, and advertising with global competitiveness in 2021.

Mission of Undergraduate Program in Communication Science

Developing Education

Implementing and developing education in journalism, public relations, and advertising.

Developing Research

Carry out and develop research in the field of Public Relations and Advertising. Relations) and advertising (Advertising) carry out and develop community service in the field of Communication.

Developing Publications

Develop scientific publications in the fields of journalism, public relations and advertising.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Journalism

Public Speaking

Public Relation

Media Research

Management Consultant

Diplomatic Techniques

Contact Us
Undergraduate Program in Communication Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jalan Dr. A. Sofian No. 1A, USU Padang Bulan Campus, Medan City, North Sumatra

(+62) - 618211965

fisip@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara