MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
FP USU National Seminar On Community Service Synergy And Implementation Of The Independent Campus
FP USU National Seminar on Community Service Synergy and Implementation of the Independent Campus
Published At
01 December 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
FP USU National Seminar on Community Service Synergy and Implementation of the Independent Campus
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 01 December 2021

“We share knowledge and exchange experiences about Abdimas that have been carried out by each, the methods used are very diverse. All academic experts convey the results of their research and academic studies needed by the community," Tavi said.

USU PR - Faculty of Agriculture (FP) Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held a National Seminar on the Results of Community Service Activities VIII with the theme "Synergy of Community Service Activities and Implementation of Independent Campus". The event was held online, Thursday (11/25/2021).

Dean of USU FP Dr. Ir. Tavi Supriana, M.S. said that community service activities (Abdimas) are a manifestation of the Tridharma of Higher Education. "Service to the community is one form of Tridharma that must be done seriously," she said.

Tavi said that this seminar is a means to disseminate journals.

“We share knowledge and exchange experiences about Abdimas that have been carried out by each, the methods used are very diverse. All academic experts convey the results of their research and academic studies needed by the community," Tavi said.

Tavi hopes that the research results can be applied to the community in Abdimas activities. This seminar will be held annually with improved quality by collaborating with community service journals from other universities.

In the event, Reviewer of PPM DRPM Dikti Prof. R. Wisnu Nurcahyo discussed the Merdeka Campus policy, the Abdimas innovation program, as well as skin service and proposal writing strategies.

“In the era of the Merdeka Campus, it demands to synergize the activities of Tridarma, whether it be education, service, and research. In particular, USU is required to be able to improve Key Performance Indicators," he said.

According to him, Abdimas is a part of the Tridarma that cannot be abandoned. He appreciated USU's FP for developing Abdimas quite a lot in accordance with the conditions in North Sumatra.

"Abdimas activities can solve problems that exist in the community, and support the downstreaming of research results through these activities," Wisnu continued.

There were three paper topics discussed in the seminar, namely improving the welfare and economy of the community, counseling and training to the community from various fields of science and the application of technology based on science and technology innovation in the context of community empowerment.

Papers will be published in the Proceedings Conference Series Talents and selected papers will be published in the journal of Science Transfer Talent Publisher USU Accredited Sinta 4. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Humas - Humas

News
Kampus Merdeka
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara