MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Fun Run And Seminar To Celebrate USU 70th Anniversary
Fun Run and Seminar to Celebrate USU 70th Anniversary
Published At
30 September 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Fun Run and Seminar to Celebrate USU 70th Anniversary
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 30 September 2022

The chairman of the committee who is also the Dean of FEB USU, Dr. Fadli, SE., M.Si is honored to be entrusted with FEB USU to be the person in charge (PIC) in the implementation of a series of activities from the 70th USU Anniversary. It doesn't just end here, there will be scientific orations and a night of intimacy arranged in the activity planning of USU 70th Anniversary.

Commemorating the 70th Anniversary, the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held a Fun Run 2022. This activity was held at the Universitas Sumatera Utara on Sunday, (09/25/2022).

 One of the entertainments in Fun Run 2022 was the appearance of Nashwa, the top 5 finalist for Indonesian Idol Junior 2018 and the USU MSME product exhibition. 

The chairman of the committee who is also the Dean of FEB USU, Dr. Fadli, SE., M.Si is honored to be entrusted with FEB USU to be the person in charge (PIC) in the implementation of a series of activities from the 70th USU Anniversary. It doesn't just end here, there will be scientific orations and a night of intimacy arranged in the activity planning of USU 70th Anniversary.

 Dr. Fadli, SE., M.Si hopes that USU Back Home 2022 will be a place to strengthen the relationship between USU students, alumni, and lecturers. It also reawakens the enthusiasm of the alumni to support USU vision, namely towards the entrepreneurial university and transformation towards the ultimate. 

"Our hope from FEB is that this activity can be re-glued and then it can inspire the enthusiasm of the alumni according to the theme of back home returning to their homes," he said.

Director of the Directorate of Student Achievement and Alumni Relations, Doli Muhammad Jafar Dalimunthe SE., M.Si hopes that this USU Back Home can increase the synergy between students and alumni for the Universitas Sumatera Utara. Therefore, this event can actually become an annual event to welcome students and recall alumni in accordance with the meaning of USU Back Home.

"Hopefully, when USU returns home next year, this is where alumni students meet and can synergize with each other for the Universitas Sumatera Utara," he said.

To enliven the event, there were various interesting door prizes that further increased the enthusiasm of around 2000 participants in the 2022 Fun Run activity.

SME Seminar

 

Previously, the USU Back Home series also held a MSME digitization seminar which was held at the USU Pancasila Building on Friday (09/23/2022).

In his remarks, USU's Vice Rector III for Research, Community Service and Cooperation, Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan S.Si., M.Sc., Apt hopes that the existence of USU Back Home 2022 can strengthen relations with USU alumni who will later be able to help the university in terms of curriculum.

"Hopefully in this activity we can interact with each other, establish communication, establish future cooperation and the rights of alumni to help the University in terms of curriculum," she said.

USU Vice Rector III for Research, Community Service and Cooperation also thanked the sponsors for supporting USU's activities towards Entrepreneurial University. 

Founder of Literasia, Ikhsan Jauhari as well as resource person at the MSME digitization seminar, hopes that students will continue to learn both in lectures and at various useful seminars. And students are encouraged to embrace digitalization in the midst of many competitors, especially in the business sector. 

“In this day and age, technology has advanced. We have to digitize our business. Competitors are getting smarter and more digitally literate. We must embrace what is called digitalization” 

Alween Ong who is also a resource person gives tips to students if you want to start a business, you can start by determining the plan. The facilitator for Gapura Digital & Women's Will advised students to continue to learn and explore their potential in order to become a useful Indonesian generation. 

"The job opportunities are not small, we know what potential we have, if we don't know how to learn, be a truly useful Indonesian generation," she said. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Dies Natalis
Healthy Campus
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara