MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Adds 3 Professors From The Realm Of Science And Technology
USU adds 3 professors from the realm of science and technology
Published At
19 September 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU adds 3 professors from the realm of science and technology
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 19 September 2023

In about a month, USU will launch the EQUITY program. In particular, the changes expected to occur in the EQUITY program at USU are useful from the professors coordinated by the USU Professors Council. It is almost impossible to succeed if USU professors do not act actively in the EQUITY program," said the USU Rector.

USU PR-Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) inaugurated three professors at the USU Student Center on Monday (28/08/2023). The three inaugurated professors are Prof. Dr. Meilita Tryana Sembiring ST, MT. from the Faculty of Engineering, Prof. Dr. Agus Purwoko S.Hut., M.Si. from the Faculty of Forestry, and Prof. Dr. Ir. Yaya Hasanah M.Si. from the Faculty of Agriculture.

USU's Rector Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin S.Sos., M.Si., in his speech, highlighted Indonesia's role in world relations which is highly appreciated by developed countries. The Rector said the importance of preparation of all parties, including educational institutions, to contribute solutions and change habits towards positive growth. 

"Indonesia has become one of the countries that is very calculated in the format of changes in world relations regarding resource sharing. USU's policies and programs to become a world-class university are decided and carried out so that the standards and quality of graduates are equivalent to the world's best campuses," said the Rector of USU.

Therefore, the Rector said USU is committed to improving quality by launching the Enhancing Quality Education for International University Recognition (EQUITY) Program which will require innovative changes in all aspects of education, research, and community service, especially for USU Professors.

"In about a month, USU will launch the EQUITY program. In particular, the changes expected to occur in the EQUITY program at USU are useful from the professors coordinated by the USU Professors Council. It is almost impossible to succeed if USU professors do not act actively in the EQUITY program," said the USU Rector.

Furthermore, through the inauguration of Professors, the Rector hopes that each professor can become a role model and through the program allow the exchange of knowledge and innovative practices between USU professors and world scientists. The Rector expressed his belief that professors will lead change and strengthen the education ecosystem towards international standards quickly. The spirit to continue increasing the number of professors was also emphasized.

"As a rector, I really want the Council of Professors to be at the forefront of the USU EQUITY program. We all hope that every USU Professor also has an academic association among world scientists. As a rector, I feel confident that the strength of 144 people will provide changes and strengthen the educational ecosystem with international standards quickly at USU. We will continue to strive to add more professors," said the Rector of USU.

Prof. Dr. Meilita Tryana Sembiring ST, MT, revealed her achievement plan after this inauguration is to make contributions that focus on the implementation of research and studies that are needed to solve problems that are currently still not resolved.

"The achievement is certainly more about contributing to the community, nation, and state. So we do more research and studies that are needed for problems that are currently unresolved. We as professors contribute to that contribution," said Prof. Dr. Meilita Tryana Sembiring ST, MT.

Meanwhile, Prof. Dr. Agus Purwoko S.Hut., M.Si. said that through this inauguration he could make a meaningful contribution to the development of human resources and was also committed to continuing to provide ideas and ideas, especially in his field of expertise, namely natural resource processing.

"I hope to continue to be able to work to contribute to the development of human resources at USU. Second, continue to be enthusiastic about being able to provide ideas, especially in my field of natural resource processing which today we hope can be a source of prosperity," said Prof. Dr. Agus Purwoko S.Hut., M.Si.

Prof. Dr. Ir. Yaya Hasanah M.Si. hopes that this inauguration will be her first step to making a greater contribution to serving religion, nation, and state through the application of her knowledge, especially in the field of education.

"Hopefully, what I have done so far will be beneficial to religion, nation, and state. Hopefully, I will be more blessed with knowledge and more able to practice knowledge for education, especially and for the religion of the nation and state," hoped Prof. Dr. Ir. Yaya Hasanah M.Si.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Education
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara