MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Rector Reviews USU Freshmen TB Screening
USU Rector Reviews USU Freshmen TB Screening
Published At
06 September 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Rector Reviews USU Freshmen TB Screening
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 06 September 2023

This is a routine examination of new students, but a new addition is TB screening. This is important because it shows student resilience. We ensure that all learning processes are well received. That's why once a disease is found directly in the polyclinic, it is treated if TB is a remarkable treatment again, "explained the Rector of USU

USU PR -Rector of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si. reviewed the last day of the USU New Student TB Screening at the USU Pancasila Building on Wednesday, (16/08/2023). A total of 120 new students were examined on this last day.

The examination was carried out in the context of Prevention and Control of Non-Communicable Diseases (P2PTM). This can improve the quality of students to avoid various diseases so that the quality of education can improve.

The USU Rector revealed that this screening is an additional step from the routine examination for new USU students to ensure the health and readiness of students in facing the learning process. There will be follow-up from the university if there are students with disease indications.

"This is a routine examination of new students, but there is a new addition: TB screening. This is important because it shows the resilience of students. We ensure that all learning processes are well received. That's why once a disease is found directly in the polyclinic, it is treated if TB is a special treatment again," said the USU Rector.

The technical stages of TB screening implementation are as follows: First, students are asked to measure body temperature using the SOBAT TB application. Next, students are directed to the waiting room and fill out the form at the https:/bit.ly/skriningtbusu link. While waiting for their turn, students were educated about TB. Then, the screening process is done using X-ray or Molecular Rapid Test (TCM).

In this TB Screening, the USU Rector mentioned using new AI-based technology as an examination tool. Where a specialist doctor then verifies the results obtained by AI. If the error rate is minimal, this is considered to be adopted as a new tool that can potentially be used.

"There is a new AI technology that is used to see the detection of the disease faster and more accurately. Two examinations are using AI. The results are entered into AI to be processed and examined by a radiology specialist. If the error rate is small or even zero, maybe we can consider making it a new tool," explained the USU Rector.

Furthermore, the USU Rector said that the university is actively developing medical devices. This involves various disciplines in collaboration with the Faculty of Medicine. Many initiatives have been started, and current efforts focus on developing innovations to produce helpful knowledge products.

"We are making what is called collaborative research for medical devices. It is not only doctors, but there are people from Engineering, FASILKOM, lecturers, and students who can collaborate with people from the Faculty of Medicine. Many have started. So now we are developing new things like this so that they can have product knowledge for us," said the USU Rector.

Lastly, he hopes that USU students can go through college in good health and adapt to all the changes they will face.

"We hope that USU students will be healthy and able to learn and adapt to all the changes they will experience," hoped the USU Rector.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Healthy Campus
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara