MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU ULT Holds Workshop To Improve Service Quality
USU ULT Holds Workshop to Improve Service Quality
Published At
25 September 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU ULT Holds Workshop to Improve Service Quality
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Sunday, 25 September 2022

"We know that ASA and ULT services are priority programs from USU Rector Dr Muryanto Amin. Currently, ULT's position is the Secretary of the University, so we must pay more attention so that the Rector's priority programs can run optimally," said Prof Fidel.

HUMAS - The Integrated Service Unit (ULT) Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held a Workshop on Excellent Service, Beauty Class and Stress Management at ASA Faculties and Service Officers at USU at My Nasyah Tiga Ras Hotel, Friday (09/16/2022) to Sunday (09/18/2022). The workshop was opened directly by the Secretary of the Universitas Sumatera Utara, Prof. Dr. dr. Muhammad Fidel Ganis Siregar M.Ked (OG), Sp. OG(K) with the participants of the One-Stop Application (ASA) in each faculty.

Prof. Fidel in his speech welcomed the workshop activities and hoped that the workshop participants could provide the best service in each ASA Faculty.

"We know that ASA and ULT services are priority programs from USU Rector Dr Muryanto Amin. Currently, ULT's position is as the Secretary of the University, so we must pay more attention so that the Rector's priority programs can run optimally," said Prof Fidel.

He explained that this workshop was held by ULT to improve ASA's human resources in each faculty in order to provide the best service not only based on the types of services available.

"Towards the internationalization of campuses, service officers who are at the forefront must appear excellent and optimal in providing academic services. Starting from performance, speech, knowledge, ethics and others must be in accordance with international standardization. Workshops like this are one way to improve the quality of human resources. our service," he said.

Head of USU's Integrated Service Unit (ULT), drg. Siti Salmiah Sp.KGA hopes that the workshop results can improve human resources in providing excellent service. "With excellent service, we will directly give a good impression and image to USU. This good image is a branding of the institution so that many people end up choosing USU to study," she said.

On the other hand, if you get bad service, the image of the institution will also be bad. "This is what we don't want. The Integrated Service Unit (ULT) as the frontline of service at the university level continues to upgrade existing human resources in order to provide maximum service. This training activity is important so that our service standardization can be in accordance with professional service standards," she said.

The Workshop Organizing Committee, Muhammad Fadli Miraza, SE, MSi reported that the workshop was attended by 40 participants who were ASA officers in each faculty, secretaries of the vice chancellor and representatives of other units related to academic services.

"The workshop also provides a different theme in each session, namely Excellent Service with Erliza Rizki Firdaus as presenter, Beauty Class which is filled by Emina Beauty Products, and Stress Management which is filled by Qintari Aninditha. In addition, there is additional material, namely Bureaucratic Reform which is brought by the Director USU's Directorate of Bureaucratic Reform and Transformation Dr. Nurman Achmad, SSos, MSoc.Sc," said Fadli.

Fadli said the event was deliberately held outside the city so that participants were able to absorb the material optimally. In addition, ULT hopes that intimacy, friendship and cohesiveness will be established for each service officer so that good communication and synergy can be created in each unit and ASA Faculty. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - HUMAS

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsyad Mulyadi - HUMAS

News
Management
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara