MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
KPK RI Anti-Corruption Campaign At USU
KPK RI Anti-Corruption Campaign at USU
Published At
13 November 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
KPK RI Anti-Corruption Campaign at USU
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 13 November 2023

We will hear various things related to what the KPK has done to overcome corruption. Corruption is still a big problem in our country," said WR 1 in the middle of his speech

USU PR - The Corruption Eradication Commission visited Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) in an activity entitled "Public Lecture Exploring the Country to Build Anti-Corruption with the Director of Socialization and Anti-Corruption Campaigns of the Indonesian Corruption Eradication Committee" on Thursday (26/10/2023) in the Auditorium which was filled with hundreds of USU students.

This activity was opened by USU Vice Chancellor I, Dr. Edy Ikhsan, S.H, M.H, who in his speech expressed his gratitude for the activity initiated by BEM USU with the KPK RI in campaigning for anti-corruption characteristics in USU students. WR I USU said that this socialization has great urgency to be carried out because corruption is a big problem that haunts Indonesia and a threat that is more dangerous than other crimes.

"We will hear various things related to what the KPK has done in overcoming corruption. Corruption is still a big problem in our country," said WR 1 in the middle of his speech.

In this public lecture, the Director of Anti-Corruption Socialization and Campaign of KPK RI, Amir Arief, S.S., S.H., M.Si., Ak., CA., CFE delivered material regarding corruption cases and efforts made by KPK in overcoming them. This anti-corruption socialization and campaign is aimed at instilling anti-corruption values in students as a useful provision when students enter the world of work. "We hope that this provision can be their capital and foundation in carrying out their education and later become part of the nation's leaders whatever their profession will be after graduation," Amir Arief explained.

The implementation of this public lecture is guided by the Tridarma functions of higher education, namely education, research, and community service. The Director of Socialization and Anti-Corruption Campaign assessed that this briefing is very important to be given to students to have integrity because students are the next generation of the nation.

He added that the expected output of this activity is divided into two categories, namely short-term and long-term categories. Short-term output is obtained through students' understanding of anti-corruption socialization based on questions and quizzes given. Meanwhile, the long-term output awaited by KPK is a young generation that has anti-corruption traits based on the anti-corruption behavior index benchmark.

"Although it is not easy, we will measure the results in the next 2-3 years," he concluded.

Responding to this activity, Chairman of BEM USU M. Aziz Syahputra hopes that this activity can increase the integrity of USU students and their ability to limit themselves when in the world of work.

"This is a collaborative activity with KPK RI, so actually the end of this activity is to increase integrity. We not only have a good scientific or academic background but with good integrity, science or whatever will follow," explained the Chairman of BEM USU.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Muhammad Andriansyah - Humas

News
Education
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara