MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Inaugurating Study Program Head, Rector Reminds That Curriculum Should Not Be Rigid
Inaugurating Study Program Head, Rector Reminds That Curriculum Should Not Be Rigid
Published At
05 October 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Inaugurating Study Program Head, Rector Reminds That Curriculum Should Not Be Rigid
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 05 October 2021

"The curriculum should not be rigid, learning methods must also respond to developments that occur outside the curriculum to be our guide so that students can adapt to the needs of the industrial world, our contribution to study programs is to make graduates have meaning, can be responded to and can be absorbed by the industrial world," said the Rector .

Inaugurating Study Program Head, Rector Reminds That Curriculum Should Not Be Rigid

Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., inaugurated the Heads and Secretaries of Departments, Heads and Secretaries of Study Programs and Heads of new Laboratories within USU. The inauguration was held at the USU Central Administration Bureau Building on Friday (1/10/2021).

The Rector said that the study program is the spearhead of the implementation of learning and is a determinant of the quality of universities and study programs which is very important for the success of all matters relating to the assessment of independent institutions. The study program is expected to be able to quickly change the learning curriculum and learning methods in accordance with existing developments, so as to create a bridge between industry and universities.

“Hopefully the mandate and oath of office can be the most basic guidelines for carrying out our duties. The change is a necessity, we continue to change according to the rapidly developing conditions outside, "said the Rector in his speech.

The Rector emphasized the most important task for the Chair and Secretary of the Study Program, classrooms must be designed to be able to create students who understand problems, have ideas and communicate them to others. In World Class University, the measurement for journal publication is the process of inviting students to express their ideas in an article.

"The curriculum should not be rigid, learning methods must also respond to developments that occur outside the curriculum to be our guide so that students can adapt to the needs of the industrial world, our contribution to study programs is to make graduates have meaning, can be responded to and can be absorbed by the industrial world," continued the Rector .

As for the Head and Secretary of the Department, the Rector advised that his function is to manage resources including lecturers and infrastructure. The Rector reminded postgraduate managers that it is important to strengthen and spread the dissemination and development of knowledge through journals.

“Many lecturers have been left behind to be able to handle functional ranks and positions. Later, there will be a special design to be able to process ranks, positions and academic degrees to be able to achieve more than 50 percent of doctorates, and more than 50 percent of professors," the Rector said.

The Rector also hopes for collaboration between the head of the study program, the head of the department and the dean. With collaboration and hard work, the Rector believes that USU can achieve campus internationalization in the next two to three years.

"My message about the infrastructure in the classroom has been conveyed to the dean and vice dean to pay attention to all processes for the needs of the chairperson and secretary of the study program for the learning process," he said. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang, Muhammad Andriansyah - PR

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara