MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Inaugurates 6 Permanent Professors, Encourages Academic And Research Contributions
USU Inaugurates 6 permanent professors, encourages Academic and Research Contributions
Published At
26 February 2025
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Inaugurates 6 permanent professors, encourages Academic and Research Contributions
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 26 February 2025

“Today's procession is part of the achievement of increasing the number of USU Professors, for four years, the addition of 120 professors. This is not just a celebration, but at the same time provides strengthening motivation to continue to contribute to producing useful tridarma outcomes to provide solutions to problems that occur in society,” said Prof. Muryanto Amin.

 

Public Relations USU - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) again inaugurated six permanent professors in the Professor Inauguration Ceremony which took place at the USU Student Center, on Tuesday (25/02/2025).

 

The six inaugurated professors are Prof. Ir. Morida Siagian, MURP, Ph.D from the Faculty of Engineering, Prof. Dr. Sovia Lenny, S.Si, M.Si from the Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences, Prof. Beny Octofryana Yousca Marpaung, ST, MT, Ph.D from the Faculty of Engineering, Prof. Dr. Ir. Dwira Nirfalini Aulia, M.Sc from the Faculty of Engineering, Prof. Ir. Hilma Tamiami Fachrudin, ST, M.Sc. , Ph.D., GP from Faculty of Engineering, and Prof. Dr. Drs. Syahrul Humaidi, M.Sc from Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences.

 

In his remarks, USU Rector Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos, M.Si, said that this inauguration was part of USU's significant achievements in increasing the number of professors. Since 2021, there have been an additional 120 professors at USU. The Rector said that this procession motivates us to continue contributing to producing useful tridarma outcomes that have an important role in solving societal problems.

 

“Today's procession is part of the achievement of increasing the number of USU Professors, for four years, the addition of 120 professors. This is not just a celebration, but at the same time provides strengthening motivation to continue to contribute to producing useful tridarma outcomes to provide solutions to problems that occur in society,” said Prof. Muryanto Amin.

 

One of the inaugurated professors, Prof. Dr. Syahrul Humaidi, M.Sc. from the Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences, mentioned in his research that obstacles were overcome by collaborating from within and outside the country. With that, Prof. Syahrul Humaidi said that after the inauguration, he would continue contributing, including increasing the number of citations and journals.

 

“My research is in the field of functional materials; the challenge is in the problem of funds, and we must provide answers to challenges, so we must go elsewhere, to BRIN, abroad. After the inaugural ceremony, I will increase the number of citations and my journal so that USU is better known,” said Prof. Syahrul Humaidi.

 

Prof. Syahrul Humaidi also urged young lecturers to continue to develop themselves, pursue academic achievements, conduct research, and contribute to the nation. He revealed that the current system ensures that all lecturers must compete.

 

“In the past, there were those who were worthy but could not become professors, but with the current system, everyone must compete. So to young lecturers, improve your achievements, develop your potential, advance your research, hopefully it will be something to be proud of for our nation and country,” said Prof. Syahrul Humaidi.

 

With the increasing number of professors, USU continues demonstrating its commitment to improving academic and research quality. This inauguration is an achievement and a motivation for lecturers to continue to innovate, develop science, and make a real contribution to society and the nation's progress.

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara