MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Visit Of The French Embassy To Indonesia At USU
Visit of the French Embassy to Indonesia at USU
Published At
11 October 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Visit of the French Embassy to Indonesia at USU
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 11 October 2023

This meeting can help Universitas Sumatera Utara to achieve progress as an internationally reputable university," said Prof. Mury

USU PR - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) had the opportunity to receive a visit from the French Ambassador to Indonesia, Fabien Penone, and all staff. The visit, which discussed cooperation between the French Embassy / French Government and USU, took place in the Rector's Audience Room, USU Central Administration Bureau Building, Monday (25/09/2023).

In his remarks, USU Rector, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin S.sos., M.Si. stated that this meeting discussed cooperation in university institutional management, improving academic quality, student/lecturer exchanges, strategies for achieving reputation, as well as collaborative research, innovation and publication programs that include the French Government.

This cooperation is expected to make a significant contribution to improving university rankings, expanding research coverage, and promoting scientific discoveries that have a positive impact on the global community.

"This meeting can help Universitas Sumatera Utara to achieve progress as an internationally reputable university," said Prof. Muryanto.

Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin S.sos., M.Si. hopes that this meeting will continue, thus providing understanding and agreement to formulate cooperation between the French Government, facilitated by the French Embassy to Indonesia and USU.

"We hope that this meeting will not only end today but can be followed up with further meetings," hoped Prof. Muryanto.

The French Ambassador to Indonesia, Fabien Panone, expressed his desire to establish close cooperation with educational institutions in Indonesia, including USU.

"We want to cooperate with all institutions in the archipelago. So, I came here to Medan to organize and establish relations with USU. Especially, this university has added some very interesting collaborations in the past," said Fabien.

Furthermore, Fabien Penone highlighted the importance of adjusting issues of concern to both parties and finding joint solutions to overcome the challenges faced.

"The important thing for us to do now is to assess what the USU's priority issues are, to see if they match what we want to do," Fabien said.

Fabien Penone hopes that the next meeting will result in a more concrete and in-depth framework for cooperation, and open the door for the development of joint initiatives that will create significant positive impacts for both parties.

"Of course, that's why we have to talk about this again by having a meeting that will discuss this cooperation in more depth," Fabien explained.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Collaboration
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara