MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU LINK-UP Holds ToT For PEKERTI Instructor
USU LINK-UP Holds ToT for PEKERTI Instructor
Published At
25 August 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU LINK-UP Holds ToT for PEKERTI Instructor
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 25 August 2022

Deputy Rector II for Human Resources and Finance Muhammad Arifin Nasution, S.Sos., M.SP said that USU was appointed as one of the Universities that held PEKERTI/AA training inside and outside USU with national standards.

PR USU - Institute for Curriculum Innovation and Learning (LINK-UP) Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) carried out a National Training of Trainer (ToT) Instructor for PEKERTI/Applied Approach (AA) National Training which took place at Grandhika Hotel, on Thursday (8/18/2022).

Deputy Rector II for Human Resources and Finance Muhammad Arifin Nasution, S.Sos., M.SP said that USU was appointed as one of the Universities that held PEKERTI/AA training inside and outside USU with national standards.

"We should be grateful because we are trusted to carry out this mandate, and today's implementation of the ToT certainly shows our commitment and seriousness for USU to become a nationally standardized PEKERTI and Applied Approach (AA) Training Organizer," WR II concluded.

The Vice Rector II also hopes that the participants who take part in this activity can take the knowledge that will be conveyed by the resource person to be able to improve the quality of the Tri Dharma of Higher Education, especially the teaching aspect. And with the certification of participants who take part in the National PEKERTI/AA Training Instructor Candidate ToT, it is hoped that they can contribute to the achievement of Key Work Indicators (KPI), especially KPI 4 and other KPIs.

"I hope participants who take part in this activity are able to improve the quality of the Tri Dharma of Higher Education," he said

Head of Link-Up Prof. Dr. Dwi Suryanto, M.Sc said that the purpose of this activity was for usu to have trainers certified with national standards, which certification is useful for participants in advancing their careers.

"The main objective of this activity is for USU to have trainers who are certified with national standards," he said.

This activity is a form of support to support USU towards the top 500 World Class University (WCU) by having a lecturer certificate, so that lecturers can work domestically and abroad.

"This activity is indirectly a form of support to support USU towards the top 500 WCU," the head of Link-UP mentioned.

On the same occasion, one of the speakers from the Institute for Research and Community Service (LPPM) State University of Malang I Wayan Dasna, Drs., M.Sc., M.Ed., Ph.D. said that in this activity the resource persons shared their experiences and teaching materials about PEKERTI/Applied Approach (AA) to prospective instructors, and it was hoped that the instructors would have insight and be ready to develop content at their respective universities.

"To support this activity, the University of Malang carries out a ToT at the university level and then reviews the content as a team at the university," he said.

Second Day

Meanwhile, on the second day, the ToT discussed the Paradigm of Learning in Higher Education and Active Learning in Higher Education.

Chairman of the Institute for Education and Learning Development (LP3) State University of Malang I Wayan Dasna, Drs., M.Si., M.Ed., Ph.D. said that in the paradigm of learning in universities, there must always be a change in the paradigm of learning in universities, including at USU, this happens because of technological and scientific developments from the boomer generation to the millennial generation until now entering generation Z.

"The learning paradigm in universities, there will always be changes in the learning paradigm in universities," he said.

The chairman of the University of Malang LP3 also said that learning at USU has used a lot of base learning by presenting problems that teach students to think creatively, therefore lecturers at USU must have broader insights between theoretical knowledge in college and science. practice in the community. So that students are required to always be active and think critically in the classroom.

"Lecturers at USU must have broader insights between theoretical knowledge in college and practical science in the community," he concluded.

On the same occasion, one of the speakers at the Institute for Education and Learning Development (LP3), State University of Malang, Prof. Dr. Lia Yuliati, M.Pd. said that active learning materials carried out in universities were to train the skills of training of trainers in case methods and team based projects, because lecturers were actively invited to discuss problems and differences between case methods and team based projects so that later they could brought into the classroom for student activity in solving a problem.

"Lecturers must be able to distinguish between case methods and team-based projects so that they can be brought into the classroom for student activity," Prof. Lia stated.

According to Prof. Lia said that active learning in higher education is very important because young students and lecturers can be physically and mentally active so that they can think and work in solving a problem in the world of work and that problem can be brought into campus so that students can analyze and then look for problem solutions.

"Skills in solving problems can be employed in the world of work and on campus so that students can analyze and find solutions to problems," she said. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: USU TV - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara