MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Real Form Of Transformation: USU Picks Up 2024 Diktisaintek Award Prize
Real Form of Transformation: USU Picks up 2024 Diktisaintek Award Prize
Published At
27 December 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
Real Form of Transformation: USU Picks up 2024 Diktisaintek Award Prize
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Friday, 27 December 2024

“We are grateful for the appreciation given. Of course, this appreciation is the fruit of the consistency and hard work shown by USU in recent years,” said Prof. Mury in his statement Saturday (14/12/2024).

USU PR - The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) won a number of awards at the annual Anugerah Diktisaintek 2024 event organized by the Ministry of Higher Education, Science, and Technology (Kemdiktisaintek), Friday (13/12/2024). The event, held at Graha Diktisaintek, Jakarta, aims to recognize stakeholders from higher education, starting from LLDikti, partners from business and industry, journalists, and other institutions that contribute to the transformation of higher education.

 

This year, USU, under the leadership of Rector Prof. Muryanto Amin, continues to show brilliant achievements after successfully bringing home Diktisaintek awards in 4 categories, including the Public Relations Award, the Cooperation Award, the Academic Leader Award in Maritime Affairs achieved by Mohammad Basyuni, and the Laboran Innovation Work Program achieved by Muhammad Balyan.

 

USU Public Relations managed to bring home Gold (gold) in the Website Sub Category then two Silver each from the realm of the Public Relations Personnel Sub Category and the Press Release Sub Category. The next Silver was brought home from the Cooperation Award Category - Sub Category of Universities with Government Cooperation.

 

USU Rector, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos, M.Si., who received the award directly from the Minister of Higher Education, Science, and Technology, Satryo Soemantri Brodjonegoro, was grateful for the appreciation given by Kemdiktisaintek. The award will be a motivation to continue to provide the best for the development of the quality of education in Indonesia.

 

“We are grateful for the appreciation given. Of course, this appreciation is the fruit of the consistency and hard work shown by USU in recent years,” said Prof. Mury in his statement Saturday (14/12/2024).

 

Prof. Mury said that USU's positive achievements were the result of the synergy of the academic community who continued to make efforts to transform in a better direction. “We should be grateful for this, while continuing to consistently maintain the achievements achieved,” he said.

 

The Head of USU's Office of Public Relations, Promotion, and Protocol, Amalia Meutia, M.Psi, Psychologist, said that this achievement was a recognition of the hard work, innovation, and dedication of the USU Public Relations Team.

 

“We realize that the dynamics of competition between universities are getting tighter. Other institutions also continue to run, upgrade quality, and present new innovations. Therefore, this success can only be achieved through strong collaboration, adaptation to technological developments, and of course, the full commitment and support of the leadership of the Universitas Sumatera Utara who provides strategic direction for us,” said Ka Humas USU.

 

Furthermore, Amalia Meutia, M.Psi added that this award will be used as a benchmark to motivate the entire public relations team to continue to move forward in facing the dynamics of competition in this field.

 

“This recognition from the Ministry of Higher Education for Science and Technology is a reminder and encouragement to continue to contribute positively to the world of education and institutional communication in Indonesia,” she added.

 

Meanwhile, Prof. Mohammad Basyuni, S.hut., M.Si., PhD, who was awarded the Academic Leader award for Maritime Affairs, expressed his hope that the Center for Excellence in Science and Technology (PUI) can actively contribute to climate change mitigation, adaptation, and advance coastal communities.

 

“For PUI Mangrove and USU itself as a hotspot for blue carbon and restoration, the recognition of the Ministry of Science and Technology is increasingly recognized at the global level,” hoped Prof. Basyuni.

 

In 2024, USU also managed to improve its ranking in the Scimago University Rank with the 9th best university in Indonesia and ranked 2,891 in the world. Previously, USU also managed to increase its ranking in the Times Higher Education (THE) world ranking from 801-1,000 to 601-800. USU's transformation feels even more real after at the end of the year the Ministry of Education and Science and Technology gave a number of prestigious awards indicating that USU's quality is increasingly recognized.

News
Headline
SDGs 4
SDGs
SDGs Headline
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara