MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
The USU Rector Leads A Combined Assembly After Eid Al-Fitr
The USU Rector Leads a Combined Assembly After Eid al-Fitr
Published At
16 May 2024
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
The USU Rector Leads a Combined Assembly After Eid al-Fitr
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 16 May 2024

"Allow me to express my apologies, both outwardly and inwardly, for any shortcomings and mistakes in words or actions, throughout our interactions thus far," expressed Prof. Muryanto.

USU PR — The Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., led a Combined Assembly, followed by a forgiveness gathering (halal bihalal) for the USU staff and workers. The event was attended by the Board of Trustees, the Academic Senate, the Council of Professors, Vice Rectors, Deans and Vice Deans of Faculties, as well as staff and lecturers. It took place in the courtyard of the USU BPA Building on Wednesday (Apr. 17, 2024).

In his speech, the USU Rector began by expressing gratitude for the opportunity to gather again after the long Eid al-Fitr holiday. He also invited all participants of the morning assembly to renew and improve their behavior after Ramadan, as part of the effort towards greater goodness.

"Allow me to express my apologies, both outwardly and inwardly, for any shortcomings and mistakes in words or actions, throughout our interactions thus far," expressed Prof. Muryanto.

With the tagline "Transformation Towards the Ultimate," the USU Rector emphasized unity in the university's work system, where each individual plays a crucial role in improving USU's performance and reputation. By urging the entire academic community to unite in the same vision and goal, which is to make USU an internationally recognized university.

"We are all part of this work system, where each person contributes significantly to the improvement of the university's performance and reputation," said Prof. Muryanto.

In the third year of his leadership, the Rector hopes that all resources and potentials can be focused on achieving these goals, namely entering the top 500+ World Class Universities and becoming a benchmark for higher education in Indonesia. This requires hard work, loyalty, and dedication from all university stakeholders.

"In the third year of my leadership period, I hope that we can all focus our resources, potentials, and strengths to achieve the goals we have set," hoped Prof. Muryanto.

The USU Secretary, Prof. Dr. dr. Muhammad Fidel Ganis Siregar M.Ked(OG), Sp.O.G, Subsp.F.E.R., stated that this moment signifies that humans are not immune to mistakes and lapses, both in their relationship with God and with others. This moment is reflected in the morning assembly event, as an opportunity for mutual forgiveness.

"So, this is a good month and this activity is an opportunity for us to forgive each other, for us with the leadership, and for the leadership with others," explained Prof. Fidel.

Prof. Dr. dr. Muhammad Fidel Ganis Siregar M.Ked(OG), Sp.O.G, Subsp.F.E.R., summarized the message from the USU Rector's speech regarding the importance of continuous work. In this process, mistakes and lapses are unavoidable, which is why it is important for all university elements to forgive each other in order to create a good and productive work environment.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Staf Humas

Interviewee: Prof Dr Muryanto Amin, S.Sos, M.Si - Rektor USU

Photographer: Mhd Andriansyah - Staf Humas

News
Campus Life
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara