MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Strengthening USU Research, Rector Integrates Innovation Institute
Strengthening USU Research, Rector Integrates Innovation Institute
Published At
04 October 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Strengthening USU Research, Rector Integrates Innovation Institute
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 04 October 2021

“Students in the study program are asked to make project-based learning plans and then practitioners are invited to strengthen the findings and research. The innovation institution will later facilitate it,” said Mury during an Afternoon Coffee with USU's Best Researchers and Innovators at USU's Inter Coffee, Tuesday (9/28).

The Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara(USU) Dr. Muryanto Amin will strengthen innovation research from lecturers and students. Therefore he will integrate the USU Innovation Institute in learning plans and programs.

Mury explained, the intended learning is to focus on making or producing a finding.

“Students in the study program are asked to make project-based learning plans and then practitioners are invited to strengthen the findings and research. The innovation institution will later facilitate it,” said Mury during an Afternoon Coffee with USU's Best Researchers and Innovators at USU's Inter Coffee, Tuesday (9/28).

Accompanied by Vice Rector III Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Z Hasibuan, the rector explained that the integration of innovation institutions was also intended to support the innovations at USU that were currently being worked on.

"We'll see what products I can encourage for product down-streaming. Can it be pushed or not. If we can do anything that needs to be done, we will also look for the companies so that down-streaming occurs," he said.

The innovation institute will also seek and analyze USU's innovations in terms of commercialization, intellectual property rights and patents.

“For example, yesterday there was a company that was looking for it but was still confused about what to offer. Sometimes the company is willing to accommodate, but our innovation is not ready yet,” he said.

According to the Rector, these problems can be resolved if there is a special institution that handles innovation. "So you have to focus. Just one or two, but the maximum will certainly have an impact on USU's progress," he said.

One of the Best Innovators (Level Katsinov) Dr. Tulus Ikhsan Nasution, S.Si, MSc, MIPA fully supports USU's plan to form an innovation institution. However, in order to maximize it, he asked for an internal innovation exhibition to be made.

"We first made an innovation competition at the USU level. The ideas were later patented. So start small first, then we push to foreign patents. Winners will be guided to expand their findings," the founder of Kom Star mentioned.

Dr. Tulus also hopes that the innovation agency will provide legal consultation. Because according to his experience, when entering the legal certainty industry, serious attention must be paid to protecting intellectual property rights from the innovations that are carried out.

Also attending were USU's best researchers, Prof. Rahmawaty, S.Hut.,M.Si.,PhD, Ir. Rosnani Ginting, MT, PhD, Dr Maulida, ST, MSc and the Best Innovator Buchari, ST, MKes, Dr Meilita Tryana Sembiring, ST, MT and the Dean of Engineering Dr. Ir Fahmi, ST, MSc, IPM.(©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - PR

News
Research
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara