MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Rector's Working Visit To FISIP
USU Rector's Working Visit to FISIP
Published At
24 January 2025
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Rector's Working Visit to FISIP
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 24 January 2025

“First, we will reduce the performance contract that we have signed with the rector to the study program,” Hatta said.

Public Relations USU - The Rector Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si. continued the agenda of working visits to the Faculty of Social and Political Sciences (FISIP) as a momentum to socialize strategic policies. It occurred on Thursday, (23/01/2025) at the ISIP Faculty Hall.

 

During the visit, the Rector said that USU continues to encourage improving the performance of the Tridarma of Higher Education in 2025 by targeting the strengthening of human resources, improving the quality of research, and industry-based innovation. This strategic step is supported by internationalization programs, such as developing international classes, joint degrees, and student exchanges.

 

Meanwhile, the Dean of FISIP, Dr. Hatta Ridho, S.Sos., MSP conveyed a number of concrete steps to support the university's vision. One of the main focuses is reducing the performance contract agreed with the Rector to the study program level.

 

“First, we will reduce the performance contract that we have signed with the rector to the study program,” Hatta said.

 

FISIP also continues to prepare itself to achieve international accreditation in five study programs. The infrastructure and curriculum that have been prepared are the first steps to support this effort. The Dean expressed optimism that with international accreditation, the faculty will be more ready to accept students from abroad.

 

“If we have been accredited, it means that we are considered ready to receive international students,” said the dean.

 

The dean also highlighted the importance of lecturers' contributions in research and scientific publications, targeting each lecturer to produce at least one indexed article annually. The family approach is used as a strategy to increase lecturer participation in Tridarma. In addition, he also reminded the importance of updating the Lecturer Workload (BKD) system regularly to maintain the employment status of lecturers, especially for P3K lecturers.

 

“So, (if) they don't have a publication for 3 years in Scopus, their status can be revoked and replaced by a new lecturer,” explained the Dean.

 

The rector's working visit is considered a good tradition in strengthening communication between university leaders and faculties. This dialog can translate the university's strategic priorities into concrete steps in the faculties and study programs. With close collaboration, USU is optimistic that it can achieve its vision as a superior and globally competitive educational institution.

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara