MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Forestry
Faculty of Forestry
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

fhut@usu.ac.id

The Faculty of Forestry (FHut) of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) was established in 2014 with a mission to produce the best alumni in the field of forestry. FHut USU offers 2 study programs, namely Bachelor of Forestry and Master of Forestry, both of which have good accreditation. Our faculty focuses on the study of forestry science that covers the function and utilization of forest ecosystems, including biodiversity, environmental conservation, forestry technology, logging law, and other aspects. Managed by experienced experts in the field of forestry and supported by adequate facilities and an integrated curriculum, we are determined to guide our students to become competent forestry experts who are able to play a role in preserving forests in Indonesia. Graduates of the Faculty of Forestry have broad career opportunities, including as researchers and working in national and international institutions such as the Indonesian Institute of Sciences (LIPI), the Agency for the Assessment and Application of Technology (BPPT), PROFAUNA, World Wildlife Fund (WWF), and various other related institutions.

Visit Faculty Page

Forestry

Undergraduate Program

Forestry

Master Program

Vision of Faculty of Forestry

To become an excellent university institution in the development of science and technology in the field of forestry that supports sustainable forest management and utilization and is able to compete globally.

Mission of Faculty of Forestry

Education

To organize a professional higher education based on research and community service to create human resources with high morality and expertise in science, technology and art in the field of forestry.

Research

To develop and disseminate forestry science and technology which is able to identify and solve problems in the development and utilization of forest resources through a scientific approach.

Service

To provide services to a society based on Science and Technology innovation and entrepreneurial character while upholding the national culture. To establish the Faculty of Forestry as a model for sustainable forest development and utilization at the regional, national and international levels.

Contact Us
Faculty of Forestry
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Kwala Bekala Campus, Simalingkar A, Pancur Batu, Deli Serdang, North Sumatra - 20353

(+62) - 618220605

fhut@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara