MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Rector Inaugirates A Professor Of Financial Management
USU Rector Inaugirates a Professor of Financial Management
Published At
30 May 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Rector Inaugirates a Professor of Financial Management
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 30 May 2023

Prof. Mury stated that the contribution of professors accelerates the transformation of USU and plays a crucial role in achieving the performance of research, community service, publications, and innovation, as well as its benefits for the development of the Sustainable Development Goals and the international industrial standard.

Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si, Rector of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), inaugurated USU Permanent Professors at the Student Center (Gelanggang Mahasiswa) on Monday (22/05/2023). The professor is Prof. Dr. Khaira Amalia Fachrudin, SE. Ak, MBA, CA, MAPPI (Cert) from the USU Faculty of Economics and Business's Field of Financial Management.

In his speech, the USU Rector highlighted the critical aspects of civilization humans face, one of which is the learning crisis that has afflicted Indonesia over the past two decades, according to the PISA indicator.

"Test results indicate that there has been no significant improvement over the past 10 to 20 years, and 70 percent of 15-year-old students are below the minimum proficiency level in reading and mathematics," he explained.

Prof. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si asserts that a solution is required to keep up. One of these is implementing a transformation that requires the participation of all parties, including professors.

Prof. Mury stated, "The contribution of Professors accelerates the transformation of USU and plays a vital role in achieving the performance of research, community service, publications, and innovation, as well as its benefits for the development of the Sustainable Development Goals and the international standard industrial world."

Prof. Dr. Khaira Amalia Fachrudin, SE. Ak., MBA, CA, MAPPI (Cert) is anticipated to support USU in realizing the commitment of Tri Dharma Perguruan Tinggi services, one of which is commitment and contribution to overcoming the education crisis in Indonesia.

Prof. Dr. Khaira Amalia Fachrudin, SE. Ak, MBA, CA, MAPPI (Cert) delivered her inaugural address titled "Digital Financial Literacy to Achieve Financial Well-Being." Her address informed the audience about financial management in the digital era.

According to her, she is responsible for comprehending individual and corporate financial management as an academic.

"Because I work in financial management, I will educate more individuals so that they are digitally literate, educated, and capable of making wise financial decisions," she said.

It was not easy for Prof. Dr. Khaira Amalia Fachrudin, SE. Ak., MBA, CA, MAPPI (Cert) to earn this university's highest honor. To become a professor, there is a lengthy list of requirements, such as having writings or publications published in prestigious journals.

Consequently, she expects that USU lecturers who become professors will continue to be enthusiastic so that the number of USU Professors will continue to grow and be devoted to solving human problems.

"Because USU requires instructors, a large number of professors have retired. Therefore, we must add more academics immediately. Prof. Khaira stated following his inauguration, "So that everyone is more enthusiastic, and those who have not been able to become enthusiastic so that they can achieve their goals quickly."

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Education
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara