MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Cultural Science
Doctoral Program In Linguistics
Doctoral Program
Linguistics
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Doctoral Program in Linguistics of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is a study program that studies various aspects of linguistics in more depth. Through a comprehensive learning process as well as supported by expert and qualified lecturers, students in this program will be equipped with extensive knowledge and skills in language analysis as well as a deep understanding of various linguistic phenomena.

This program aims to produce linguistic experts who are able to contribute significantly to the development of linguistics, both in academic and practical contexts. Upon completing this program, students will obtain the Doctor (Dr.) degree.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

fib@usu.ac.id

Doctoral Program in Linguistics

Accredited Very Good

No. 2724/SK/BAN-PT/Ak.KP/D/VII/2023

Vision of Doctoral Program in Linguistics

To become an excellent study program at the national level in the development of linguistics based on local wisdom and achieve international recognition by the year 2021.

Mission of Doctoral Program in Linguistics

Quality and Innovative

To organize quality and innovative linguistics education in accordance with the demands of the job market.

Research

To develop linguistics research based on local wisdom and gain international recognition.

Community Service

To conduct community service activities by developing language-related innovative products to enhance the community's knowledge, skills, and economic livelihood.

Cooperation

To establish synergistic cooperation with other institutions in the Three Pillars of Higher Education activities at the local, national, and international levels.

Writing Training

To organize academic writing training in the field of linguistics across languages and cultures.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Psycholinguistics

Neurolinguistics

Semantics-Pragmatics

Anthropholinguistics

Comparative Linguistics

Ecological Linguistics

Discourse Analysis

Translation

Contact Us
Doctoral Program in Linguistics
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Abdul Hakim No.1 Padang Bulan, Kec. Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20222

(061) - 8215956

fib@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara