MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Offers To Host The 34th National Scientific Week (Pimnas)
USU Offers to Host the 34th National Scientific Week (Pimnas)
Published At
14 July 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Offers to Host the 34th National Scientific Week (Pimnas)
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 14 July 2021

MEDAN - USU Public Relations: The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) has volunteered to host the 34th National Scientific Week (Pimnas) in 2021.

In front of the Pimnas Jury Team during a visit to assess USU's readiness on Saturday (5/29/2021) in the Hall of the USU Information Technology Faculty of Computer Science,

USU's Rector, Dr. Muryanto Amin, S Sos, M Si, said USU had experience in organizing many national events, so he felt confident USU was able to be host.

“USU dared to offer to become the real host, not just trial and error or rely on courage alone.The experience that has been passed by USU as a host in various national and international events, has at least provided strong enough capital for us to offer ourselves as hosts in the upcoming 34th Pimnas," said the USU Rector.

He hopes thathostingPimnas will provide motivation and stimulus to lecturers and students to work in the world of research.

"We are trying to be the host so that it becomes a stimulus to the students.In recent years, USU's achievements in Pimnas have declined, so it needs to be revived.This Pimnas is important because it is an official Ministry of Education, Culture, Research and Technology event," he said.

Muyanto Amin said USU has adequate facilities tohost.USU has facilities that can support the implementation of Pimnas activities that are carried out online.

"For the readiness of physical facilities, we can say that the Universitas Sumatera Utara is supported by, among others, more than 40 computer laboratories, more than 10 multimedia rooms, more than 10 multipurpose rooms with a capacity of 300 people, an auditorium with a capacity of 3,000 people and parking pockets that can accommodate various types of facilities, types of vehicles in large numbers," he said.

The internet network in the campus environment is also very stable and controlled to secure the implementation of a large event.In addition, access to the Universitas Sumatera Utara is also very easy to reach, and has many quality accommodations in the vicinity.

USU has also prepared a theme and mascot for the 34th Pimnas activity in 2021.USU has promoted North Sumatran local wisdom as a mascot in the form of a Nias Parrot wrapped in ulos.

"In preparation tohostthe 2021 PIMNAS, the USU PIMNAS Team has also prepared a theme that is proposed to be carried out in the activity, namely "Towards a Golden Indonesia through Collaboration for Innovation in the Frame of Local Wisdom."

In addition, the logo and mascot for the 34th PIMNAS are also available, where USU offers a mascot in the form of Beo Nias, named Beni," he said.

The Mayor of Medan, Muhammad Bobby Afif Nasution, SE, MM, in his speech fully supported USU to become thehost.

Hesaid it was an honor to be able to hold the 34th Pimnas in 2021 in Medan City.

“It is an honor for me to welcome Pimnas to be held in Medan City.I am very sure USU is able to organize this activity well because it is supported by complete facilities.The Medan City Government is committed to helping USU.This has been proven by the manycollaborationscarried out between the USU Medan City Government," he said.

Healso welcomed the jury team who visited USU.He hopes the team will feel comfortable in Medan City.Hedescribed the city of Medan as the right location for the implementation of this activity.

“I hope that guests who attend will feel comfortable and like at home in Medan City, because Medan City is actually a source of happiness.Therefore, I really hope that USU in Medan will be thehost.This is also an opportunity for me to be able to join Pimnas.Because from the beginning I really wanted to join Pimnas when I was a student, but it didn't happen.If USU becomes the host, at least I can still participate even though I'm invited as mayor," he said with a laugh.

The visitation activities which were carried out online and offline were attended by the Coordinator of the Pokja Dikti, Rizal Alfian, S.Kom., MA, Dr. Fajar Priyatama from the Belmawa Directorate of the Ministry of Education and Technology, Head of the Pimnas Jury, Dr Indwiani and Dr Suherman from UGM.Secretary of the Pokja Dikti, Tri Isti, USU's Vice Rectors, Expert Staff of the Rector, and USU's deans.

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang, Muhammad Andriansyah - PR

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara