MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Forestry
Master's Program In Forestry
Master Program
Forestry
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Master's Program in Forestry at Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is an advanced study for graduates of the Undergraduate Program in Forestry and is considered a strategic step in realizing educational institutions that are able to compete globally, especially in the field of natural resource excellence. With a focus on an interdisciplinary approach, students of this program are expected to be able to produce creative, innovative, tested, and useful work for the development of science and society, and can be recognized both at the national and international levels.

Collaborations carried out both on a national and international scale will provide opportunities for prospective graduates to further explore forestry science, especially in the fields of forecasting analysis, spatial analysis based on geographic information systems (GIS), and optimal forest development.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

fhut@usu.ac.id

Master's Program in Forestry

Accredited Good

No. 10185/SK/BAN-PT/Ak/M/XII/2022

Vision of Master's Program in Forestry

In 2027, the Master of Forestry Study Program will become one of the centers of excellence in the development of Sumatran tropical forestry sciences and technology

Mission of Master's Program in Forestry

Education

Organizing professional master's level education based on research and community service to produce human resources with integrity, mastering science, technology, and art in the field of forestry, and being able to lead development and society.

Science & Technology

Developing and disseminating the latest and superior forestry science and technology as part of efforts to solve problems in the management, utilization, conservation, and technology of tropical forest resources through an integrated or multidisciplinary scientific approach.

Reference

Creating higher education institutions that become a reference for various parties in the management, utilization, conservation, and technology of tropical forest resources in the regional, national, and international scope.

Integrated Laboratory

Developing an integrated laboratory in the field of tropical forestry with a focus on developing tropical forest resources that are endemic to Sumatra.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Forest Management and Forestry Business

Biotechnology and Forestry Engineering

Biomaterials and Forestry Industry

Conservation and Ecotourism

Contact Us
Master's Program in Forestry
Universitas Sumatera Utara

USU Bekala Campus 2, Simalingkar A, Pancur Batu, Deli Serdang, North Sumatra, 20353

(+62) - 618220605

fhut@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara