MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
1st Anniversary Of Faculty Of Vocational Education At USU
1st Anniversary of Faculty of Vocational Education at USU
Published At
28 November 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
1st Anniversary of Faculty of Vocational Education at USU
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 28 November 2023

The faculty is also expected to be one of the best support systems in supporting and realizing the internationalization program promoted by Universitas Sumatera Utara," said Prof. Muryanto.

USU PR- The Faculty of Vocational Education at Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) has entered a new phase, marked by the celebration of its 1st anniversary. Themed "Vocationers For Future Innovators," the event took place at the Faculty of Vocational Education on Monday (11/13/2023).

On the second day of the anniversary celebration, the Faculty of Vocational Education held a seminar on "Optimizing Vocational Education in Facing the Challenges of the Industrial World." The conference featured three speakers: the Head of the Manpower Office of North Sumatra Province, Ir. Abdul Haris Lubis, M.Si.; the Head of the Cooperative and SME Office of North Sumatra Province, Dr. Naslindo Sirait, S.E. M.M.; and the Head of the Department of Culture, Tourism, and Creative Economy of North Sumatra Province, Zumri Sulthony, S.Sos., M.Si.

In his address, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., the Rector of USU, expressed appreciation for the first-anniversary celebration this year for the Faculty of Vocational Education. With new enthusiasm under the current leadership, the Faculty of Vocational Education can continue to develop and contribute positively to the academic world.

"First of all, allow me, on behalf of the leadership of Universitas Sumatera Utara, to congratulate the dean's office and the Faculty of Vocational Education community at USU," said Prof. Muryanto.

The Faculty of Vocational Education at USU faces complex challenges in the current era of disruption. Therefore, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., hoped the Faculty of Vocational Education at USU could be more proactive in designing the Tri Dharma cooperation program with various parties, especially industries and the government. This way, it can maximize the full potential of the faculty and improve the quality of graduates.

"The faculty is also expected to be one of the best support systems in supporting and realizing the internationalization program promoted by Universitas Sumatera Utara," said Prof. Muryanto.

In line with this, the Dean of the Faculty of Vocational Education, Prof. Dr. Isfenti Sadalia, S.E., M.E., explained that the faculty has successfully established 19 domestic collaborations and has Implementing Agencies (IA) from 14 Study Programs with a total of 93 partners. This collaboration reflects the commitment of the Faculty of Vocational Education to build a strong and sustainable network to improve the quality of education.

"Collaboration is not just about working together but also about sharing visions, goals, and resources to achieve something greater," explained Dr. Isfenti.

Referring to the theme of this Dies Natalis, the Dean of the Faculty of Vocational Education explained that the activities were packaged in a festival concept consisting of several series of events. This festival emphasizes innovation in science, technology, arts, mathematics, and social humanities to build an innovative culture within the USU Faculty of Vocational Education.

"With a holistic approach, the activities aim to stimulate the creativity and interdisciplinary collaboration of students and staff of the Faculty of Vocational Education," said Dr. Isfenti.

Solahuddin Nasution, S.E., M.SP., the Chair of the 1st Anniversary Committee of the Faculty of Vocational Education, presented a series of activities focused on two days. On the first day, activities started with a healthy gymnastics session, followed by a bazaar, health check-ups, blood donation, a job fair, a fashion show, entertainment, and competitions from each study program.

"Then there is an assessment of lecturers from the dean's office of the Faculty of Vocational Education. The entire series of events is designed to liven up the celebration of the Dies Natalis of the Faculty of Vocational Education," explained Solahuddin.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Muhammad Andriansyah - Humas

News
Dies Natalis
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara