MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Professors Must Achieve International Recognition
USU professors must achieve international recognition
Published At
19 December 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU professors must achieve international recognition
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 19 December 2023

Our duty, as Professors, is to strive for recognition and acknowledgment from the international community continuously," said Prof. Muryanto

USU PR- Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) once again held the Inauguration Ceremony for Permanent Professors at USU's Student Arena. This event took place on Wednesday (12/06/2023)

A total of five permanent professors were inaugurated, namely Prof. Dr. Ir. Tavi Supriana, M.S. from the Faculty of Agriculture; Prof. Dr. Dra Rozanna Mulyani, M.A. from the Faculty of Cultural Sciences; Prof. Dr. Nursahara Pasaribu, M.Sc. from the Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences; Prof. Dr. Maria, S.H., M.Hum. from the Faculty of Law; and Prof. Dr. Nurlela, M.Hum. from the Faculty of Law.

USU Rector, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., emphasized in his speech that the position of Professor is the highest academic rank achievable by a lecturer. Upon attaining this position, a lecturer's Tridharma duties (teaching, research, and community service) significantly increase in quantity and quality. They are expected to become role models, especially within the university environment.

"Our duty, as Professors, is to strive for recognition and acknowledgment from the international community continuously," said Prof. Muryanto.

He further highlighted two major concerns in higher education: governance and learning outcomes. Prof. Muryanto explained that university governance should be streamlined and efficient (minimalist) while remaining impactful (rich in function) due to the disruptions caused by technological advancements.

"Therefore, the outcomes of learning should provide quick solutions to the challenges faced by the industrial world," Prof. Muryanto further emphasized.

The Rector outlined how USU has transformed to address these issues and strengthen institutional performance. This commitment involves encouraging lecturers to embrace their evolving roles and align them with the institutional transformation at USU.

"The main strength comes from the lecturers who design the curriculum, adapt learning methods based on student needs, and disseminate their research results in international Scopus journals," Prof. Muryanto highlighted.

One of the newly inaugurated Professors, Prof. Dr. Nursahara Pasaribu, M.Sc., offered special encouragement to colleagues still working towards a similar career path, urging them to achieve it as soon as possible. She also proposed the creation of a dedicated forum for Professors to discuss and share experiences and plans.

"This forum would serve as a place for us to share stories and plan our next steps in our career journey," said Prof. Nursahara.

For your information, USU currently holds Excellent Accreditation and is ranked 1,200 in QS World University Rankings (WUR), 1,500 in THE World University Rankings (WUR), and 401 in QS Asian University Rankings (AUR). With 165 active USU Professors and six Professors with pending inauguration, it is hoped that USU's transformation toward international recognition will be accelerated.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Muhammad Andriansyah - Humas

News
Education
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara