MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Assessment Of S3 Physical Science Seek Improve Accreditation
Assessment of S3 Physical Science Seek Improve Accreditation
Published At
07 July 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Assessment of S3 Physical Science Seek Improve Accreditation
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 07 July 2023

The research conducted by the doctors of Physical Science is expected to produce important innovations, which will be an appropriate solution to societal problems—of course, prioritizing the principles of justice, community empowerment, and sustainability at the national and global levels.

USU PR: The Doctoral Program in Physical Science received a team of accreditation assessors from the Natural Science and Formal Science Self-Accreditation Institute (LAMSAMA), Thursday (22/6/2023), at the Multipurpose Room lt 1 Unit 8 OF Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences (FMIPA), USU. The assessor team consisted of Prof. Dr. Antonius Nanang Tyasbudi Puspito, M.Sc, from Institut Teknologi Bandung, and Dr. Ir Adi Rahwanto, M.Eng.Sc from Universitas Syiah Kuala.

The arrival of the two assessors was welcomed by the Secretary of the Universitas Sumatera Utara, Prof. Dr. Muhammad Fidel Ganis Siregar, M Ked (OG), Sp OG (K), and the Dean of F-MIPA USU. In his remarks, the Secretary of the Universitas Sumatera Utara, representing the leadership of the Universitas Sumatera Utara, expressed his gratitude and welcome to the Assessor Team.

Accreditation as an External Quality Assurance System (EQAS/SPME) reflects the Internal Quality Assurance System (IQAS/SPMI) of the Study Program. Thus the accreditation process is a systematic routine process that will be feedback for the Study Program, Faculty, and University, always to improve its SPMI as a continuous improvement quality.

"We wish that what is photographed by the assessors in this field assessment can describe the best things built by USU’s Doctoral Program in Physical Science over the past year. Where all existing performance and resources have been maximized to improve the achievement and standardization of study program quality so that graduates are in line with the needs of society and industry, we hope that this activity will provide good results for the accreditation assessment of USU’s Doctoral Program in Physical Science, "said Prof. Fidel Ganis.

In the current era of disruption, he continued, the world is undergoing a full transformation in various fields. All require adaptation to the acceleration of science and technology of us. If paired with the USU Phase-2 vision to become an international standard university characterized by local excellence, then the only way is to improve the quality of educational services and the quality of graduates, especially for the Doctoral Program in Physical Science of F-MIPA USU, which is expected to become a barometer of higher education and a qualified research center at the national and international levels. In line with the Vision of the Doctor of Physical Scienceat Study Program, it was namely Becoming a Doctor of Physical Science Study Program towards internationalization that excels in the development and innovation of advanced materials, exploration of natural resources, and renewable energy with an environmental perspective.

The research conducted by the doctors of Physical Sciences is expected to produce important innovations, which will be an appropriate solution to solving problems in the community and, of course, prioritizing the principles of justice, community empowerment, and sustainability at the national and global levels.

Doctoral Program in Physical Science recorded several good achievements over the past year, where the lecturers are actively conducting research from various schemes/grants, PTM / PDD, including domestic and foreign collaborative research. Also, a member of PSI (Indonesian Physicists Association) and several other lecturers became members of International Physicists.

The Study Program also actively participates in international seminars. Some have even been on the committee of international seminars in Malaysia, such as Prof. Timbangen Sembiring and Dr. Syahrul Humaidi. Meanwhile, several lecturers actively participate in the IMS USU and WCU USU programs. Prof. Dr. Timbangen Sembiring (2015) and Dr. Syahrul Humaidi (2023) are PMDSU promoter lecturers. As well as other lecturers as joint promoters with research institutions (BRIN, Palm Oil, etc.) and lecturers from abroad.

"The quality of education and graduates certainly cannot be measured by the study program's age, but rather by the vision and commitment of all educators and students. So we hope that the assessors, as part of the quality assurance system in Indonesia, can support the study program to be the best. Hopefully, USU’s Doctoral Program in Physical Science can achieve a GOOD accreditation rating, where previously this study program had been accredited Excellent, "said Prof. Fidel Ganis when delivering his speech.

The event was attended by Dr. Cut Fatimah Zuhra, S.Si, M.Si, Secretary of the USU Research Institute, Prof. Syafruddin Ilyas, M. Biomed, Secretary of the USU Community Service Institute, as well as Dr. Dr. Jonner Hasugian, M.Si from the Quality Assurance Agency, Dr. Meutia Nauly, S.Psi, M.Si, psychologist, Professor Dr. Drs Jonner Hasugian, M.Si from USU Library, Laila Hadri Nasution, S. Sos, MP.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang, Muhammad Andriansyah - Humas

News
Management
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara