MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Head Of HR Bureau: USU Bureaucratic Reform Is Carried Out In Two Ways
Head of HR Bureau: USU Bureaucratic Reform is carried out in two ways
Published At
05 November 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Head of HR Bureau: USU Bureaucratic Reform is carried out in two ways
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 05 November 2021

The management of USU human resources is the duty and responsibility of the USU HR Bureau. HR mapping, job analysis, HR planning and development, drafting regulations on USU's personnel and organization, and restructuring of USU's human resources are all part of human resource management to make USU's lecturers and teaching staff more professional and competent.

USU PR - The quality of human resources at the Universitas Sumatera Utara must be improved so that it can encourage the quality of the bureaucracy and be able to compete in the global era and the Industrial Revolution 4.0. This was conveyed by the Head of the USU HR Bureau, Dra. Syafnita Hanura Silalahi, MSP during a routine morning rally on Monday (10/25/2021) at the USU Central Administration Bureau.

In her mandate, the Head of the USU HR Bureau said that reforming the bureaucracy meant improving the quality of the bureaucracy, and this was done in two ways, namely simplifying the bureaucracy and digitizing the bureaucracy. This needs to be supported by improving the quality of the state civil apparatus as USU's human resources.

The management of USU human resources is the duty and responsibility of the USU HR Bureau. HR mapping, job analysis, HR planning and development, drafting regulations on USU's personnel and organization, and restructuring of USU's human resources are all part of human resource management to make USU's lecturers and teaching staff more professional and competent.

"Along with the implementation of duties and functions, the USU HR Bureau also strives for self-upgrading, creating its work units as organizations with agile and agile bureaucracy, simple, dynamic and adaptive to change," said Dra. Syafnita.

Dra. Syafnita invites the Heads of Sections, Heads of Sub Divisions and all staff of the HR Bureau to jointly realize that the HR Bureau is a very strategic bureau and its work results are constantly monitored.

“We are required to carry out the duties and functions of each individual very well, precisely, effectively and efficiently. We are also required to carry out tasks beyond the demands of work as part of an excellent public service effort,” she continued.

It is emphasized that each individual staff of the USU HR Bureau must take on the responsibility to be responsive to the HR needs of USU Apparatus who are stakeholders, to be proactive to the needs of work in the HR Bureau, to have the ability to identify problems and opportunities, the ability to adapt to change, and desire to add and broaden horizons and experiences. On the occasion Dra Syafnita also said that during the ongoing 2021 fiscal year, the USU HR Bureau had carried out several important tasks. The implementation of this task will be continued with socialization and implementation, especially for the application of several internal regulations and provisions for the management of USU human resources as a PTN-BH.

Dra. Syafnita hopes that the implementation of the duties and functions of the USU HR Bureau with all its ranks and all individuals can improve better, more efficiently and effectively in the future.

"I express my gratitude and appreciation to all ranks of the HR Bureau for the hard work and cooperation that we have established well, as part of real participation in efforts to change and improve governance at the Universitas Sumatera Utara," she said. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - PR

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara