MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
North Sumatra Provincial Government Supports Face-To-Face Meetings To Be Implemented By USU
North Sumatra Provincial Government Supports Face-to-Face Meetings to be Implemented by USU
Published At
17 November 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
North Sumatra Provincial Government Supports Face-to-Face Meetings to be Implemented by USU
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 17 November 2021

Deputy Governor Musa Rajekshah conveyed that PTM or limited face-to-face lectures that can be carried out based on Circular Letter Number 4 of 2021 concerning the Implementation of Face-to-face Learning for the Academic Year 2021/2022 by the Directorate General of Higher Education Kemendikbud Research and Technology must be carried out as well as possible in accordance with existing guidelines.

USU PR - Deputy Governor (Vice Governor) of North Sumatra (North Sumatra) Musa Rajekshah was asked to be the Keynote Speaker in the Hybrid Public Discussion with the theme Measuring Readiness of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) in the Implementation of Face-to-Face Learning (PTM) in the Middle of a New Normal Situation.

On the occasion, Deputy Governor Musa Rajekshah conveyed PTM or limited face-to-face lectures that can be carried out based on Circular Number 4 of 2021 concerning the Implementation of Face-to-face Learning for the Academic Year 2021/2022 by the Directorate General of Higher Education of Ministry of Education, Culture, Research and Technology must be carried out as well as possible in accordance with the existing guidelines.

"First of all, we would like to thank USU for holding a discussion on our readiness in this face-to-face learning, we hope that in our activities, especially in the USU environment, we are able to comply with the health protocols," said Musa Rajekshah online, Saturday (11/13).

According to him, universities that are ready to carry out PTM, especially USU, must form a Covid-19 task force (Satgas) within the scope of USU, and prepare the facilities and infrastructure needed for health protocols to prevent the transmission of Covid-19. Also ensure that everything runs according to Standard Operating Procedures (SOP).

"Universities must also issue learning guidelines, graduations and other activities on campus and ensure that parents or guardians of students have approved their children to come face-to-face. For infrastructure, spray disinfectants, check the availability of running water, hand soap, masks, thermo guns which functioning properly," said Musa Rajekshah while saying that vaccination is also a requirement for participating in PTM.

USU was also asked to form study groups, to arrange entry schedules between groups to adjust the positions of tables, chairs and traffic on campus. "Everything must be done in detail which is the entrance gate, which exit is so that there are no crowds, and the campus understands better, because this pandemic is not over," said Musa Rajekshah, who is familiarly called Ijeck.

Ijeck said that the Provincial Government (Pemprov) of North Sumatra supports USU which is ready to meet face-to-face and he hopes that everything that is done must still be coordinated and communicated. In addition, the government will also continue to encourage vaccination to villages and sub-districts.

"Hopefully this discussion can be put to good use as a preparation to overcome the spread of Covid-19 during the Face-to-face Learning period," concluded Ijeck.

USU Vice Rector I for Academic, Student and Alumni Affairs, Edi Ikhsan said that his party continues to ensure the offline learning SOPs set by the USU Covid-19 Task Force and the government run well. USU's decision on PTM is the result of intense communication and sharing of cross-sector coordination.

"Parents of students have given permission, so we certainly don't want to injure parents' trust. So, we continue to coordinate and communicate with the Covid-19 Task Force to design activities and schedules that are able to provide comfort to students and teaching staff from the possibility of contracting Covid-19," he said.

USU's preparation for face-to-face lectures in early 2022, continued Edi, in addition to the coordination between the USU Covid-19 Task Force and the Covid-19 Task Force, is compiling a guidebook for the implementation of academic activities.

"We will continue to disseminate this guidebook to the entire academic community on a regular basis so that it is hoped that it will be able to foster the same perception among lecturers and students. This guidebook is our endeavor to prepare safe learning in addition to continuing to complete the required facilities and infrastructure," he said.

Currently, Edi admits that there are nine faculties that are currently conducting practical work on offline or face-to-face activities with a hybrid scheme and by the end of the year his party will conduct an evaluation so that in early 2022 offline activities can be carried out even better.

"So it's not only regulating the learning flow, but we also set a mechanism for evaluating and monitoring practicum, offline and hybrid lectures. Later we will also provide strict requirements where health factors are prioritized, comorbidities are not allowed to take offline classes, vaccines, PCR and Routine swab is a non-negotiable requirement. We will continue to socialize in various ways, including placing appeals in strategic places on campus, "he concluded. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Humas - Humas

News
Campus Life
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara