MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Plenary Meeting Of The Board Of Trustees And Visit Of Director General Of Higher Education To USU Digital Learning Center
Plenary Meeting of the Board of Trustees and Visit of Director General of Higher Education to USU Digital Learning Center
Published At
15 January 2025
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
Plenary Meeting of the Board of Trustees and Visit of Director General of Higher Education to USU Digital Learning Center
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Wednesday, 15 January 2025

On the occasion, the Director General of Higher Education delivered a message and direction from the Minister of Higher Education, Science, and Technology regarding the autonomy management of Legal Entity State Universities. This message is an important part of supporting the independence and strengthening of higher education governance in Indonesia, especially in facing the challenges of higher education in the digital era.

Medan: The Board of Trustees has held a plenary meeting on the agenda of an entry meeting with the public accounting firm Sukardi Hasan and Partners on Monday (13/1/2025). The Director General of Higher Education (Dirjen Dikti), Prof. Dr. Khairul Munadi, ST, M.Eng, who represented the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, attended the meeting.

On the occasion, the Director General of Higher Education delivered a message and direction from the Minister of Higher Education, Science, and Technology regarding the autonomy management of Legal Entity State Universities. This message is an important part of supporting the independence and strengthening of higher education governance in Indonesia, especially in facing the challenges of higher education in the digital era.

After the MWA meeting was over, the Director General of Higher Education continued the agenda by visiting the USU Digital Learning Center (DLCB) Building to see firsthand the implementation of the digital learning platform. This visit aims to monitor the development and use of learning technology implemented in the USU environment.

The Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology (Kemdiktisaintek) of the Republic of Indonesia appreciates the steps taken by the University of North Sumatra in implementing digital learning through the Digital Learning Center. Prof. Khairul Munadi states, “This digital learning platform is very beneficial for the academic community, where lecturers can provide more relevant and efficient teaching materials, while students can access learning materials quickly and precisely.”

The Director General of Higher Education emphasized the importance of innovation in strengthening learning technology, which supports an effective teaching and learning process. Digital learning, he continued, will be the main supporter of the existing learning system and encourage the spirit of lifelong learning. “By connecting this digital learning platform with open learning resources and the local context of the community, we can improve the quality of education and encourage interest in learning among the community,” he said.

Khairul Munadi also hopes that utilizing the Digital Learning Center at USU will strengthen digital learning technology and become a learning reference for the wider community. In addition, he supports USU's steps in strengthening the mastery and development of digital technology by forming digital talents, which are expected to encourage the younger generation to improve their skills in the digital field. “These digital talents will contribute to the economic development of creative and digital economy-based communities, including supporting the growth of MSMEs through digital markets,” he added.

With this strategic step, USU is expected to continue to innovate and significantly contribute to building a higher education ecosystem based on technology and science and supporting the development of the digital economy in Indonesia.                               

News
Headline
SDGs
SDGs 16
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara