MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU FKep Anniversary Promotes Global Nursing Education
USU FKep Anniversary Promotes Global Nursing Education
Published At
30 September 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU FKep Anniversary Promotes Global Nursing Education
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 30 September 2022

"No less important is increasing the ability of USU's Nursing Faculty in establishing relationships and expanding its networking network to stakeholders and other nursing education institutions at home and abroad," said the Rector.

HUMAS USU - At the age of 23, the Faculty of Nursing (F-Kep) of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held a dies natalis by holding a scientific oration that was packaged under the title "Strengthening Nurse Competence Through Globally Oriented Nursing Education".

Delivered directly by the General Chairperson of the Central Executive Board (DPP) of the Indonesian National Nurses Association (PPNI), the scientific oration took place in the USU F-Kep Hall on Wednesday (09/28/2022).

USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si appreciates all the achievements that have been achieved by USU's F-Kep both in the academic and non-academic fields, as well as the continuous improvement of public services and facilities.

"I appreciate all the achievements that have been obtained by the USU Faculty of Nursing, both in the academic and non-academic fields, as well as the continuous improvement of public services and facilities," said the Rector.

The Rector advised that USU's F-Kep improve its ability to build relationships and expand networks to stakeholders and fellow nursing education institutions both at home and abroad.

"No less important is increasing the ability of USU's Nursing Faculty in establishing relationships and expanding its networking network to stakeholders and other nursing education institutions at home and abroad," said Mury.

The Rector hopes that the competencies of USU's F-Kep graduates are not only implemented in the limited space capacity, but also have roles and benefits in general for the community, nation and state.

Meaning the 23rd age of the USU F-Kep, the Dean of the USU F-Kep Dr. Dudut Tanjung, S.Kp. M.Kep. Sp.KMB is grateful for all the blessings that have been given by God Almighty and for several achievements of USU's F-Kep such as two study programs that have been accredited with excellence, namely the Nursing Study Program and the Bachelor of Nursing.

Then some student achievements both nationally and internationally.

"Yes, of course, thanks to the presence of Allah Almighty who has given us several blessings this year, the first is excellent accreditation and then several achievements from students both nationally and internationally," the Dean of F-Kep USU mentioned.

After last year's success in getting the ZI-WBK award from the Ministry, this year F-Kep is in the process of competing to get the ZI-WBK predicate from the KemenPAN-RB.

Chairman of the Committee for the 23rd Anniversary of the USU F-Kep Ikhsanuddin Ahmad Harahap, S.Kp. MNS hopes that the celebration of the 23rd Anniversary of the USU F-Kep will be the right momentum for the entire F-Kep academic community to move forward together to achieve their goals and contribute to improving university accreditation.

"Of course we hope that the celebration of Dies Natalis will be the right moment for the entire nursing academic community to move forward together to achieve the goals we dream of and of course also contribute to increasing university accreditation," he explained. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Dies Natalis
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara