MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Engineering
Doctoral Program In Architecture And Urban Science
Doctoral Program
Architecture and Urban Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Doctoral Program in Architecture and Urban Science began operating in 2011, making it one of the relatively new Doctoral programs. The main objective of the program is to train graduates to become experts, researchers, and consultants in the field of architecture and urban planning. The curriculum is designed to cover various aspects of learning, including philosophy, research methodology, architectural science, urban science, and other related learning components. One of the main focuses of learning is on urban science, which provides an in-depth understanding of urban planning, sustainable development, and the role of urban design in creating a better environment.

The vision of the Doctoral Program in Architecture and Urban Science is to become an excellent and leading doctoral education study program both at the national and international levels, with strengths in Local Wisdom and Technology. Graduates of this program are expected to become professional architecture and construction experts who have logical, critical, systematic, creative, and innovative thinking. They are also expected to be able to analyze architectural developments that occur in the national and global community. Students who complete this study program will earn a Doctoral degree (Dr.) and are ready to contribute to the development of the world of architecture and urban planning with their expertise and knowledge.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

marsitektur@usu.ac.id

Doctoral Program in Architecture and Urban Science

Accredited Good

No. 1008/SK/BAN-PT/Akred/D/II/2021

Vision of Doctoral Program in Architecture and Urban Science

To become a prominent and leading Doctoral Education Study Program in Architecture and Urban Science at the national and international levels with the strength of Local Wisdom and Technology.

Mission of Doctoral Program in Architecture and Urban Science

Education

Organizing an excellent Doctor of Architecture and Urban Science education to graduate scholars with excellence and integrity in pursuing scientific exploration and expansion so that they are able to compete internationally.

Problem Solver

Organizing education to provide graduates who are proven as problem solvers in solving various societal problems through scientific reasoning that is insightful in architectural, urban, and technological sciences at various scales and scopes.

Research

Developing innovative architectural and urban research to generate new insights, technologies, or concepts that can answer the challenges of the Industrial Revolution 4.0 era towards the development of Society 5.0 era.

Community Service

Developing community service through research in the field of architectural and urban science and technology that is creative and progressively beneficial to improve the standard and quality of life of the community.

Partnership

Establishing partnerships with other parties nationally and internationally in the fields of academics, research, and community service.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Building Science and Technology

Urban Planning, Housing, and Design

Environment Design and Landscape

Architectural Design

Contact Us
Doctoral Program in Architecture and Urban Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

J7 Building, Jalan Perpustakaan, USU Padang Bulan Campus

+6282369006735

marsitektur@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara