MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Mayday 2024 Festival Strengthens Labor Solidarity
Mayday 2024 Festival Strengthens Labor Solidarity
Published At
05 June 2024
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Mayday 2024 Festival Strengthens Labor Solidarity
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 05 June 2024

"Therefore, it is very appropriate if we pin the slogan that my workers are my heroes to all workers wherever they are and let us shout together with enthusiasm," said Hassanudin.

USU PR—On Wednesday, (May, 8), Vice Rector II for Human Resources and Finance of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), Dr. Muhammad Arifin Nasution, S.Sos., M.Sp. became a representative to receive an award at the Mayday Festival (International Labor Day) at the Provincial Government Multipurpose Building. The festival, attended by 72 North Sumatra labor unions, carried the theme "Working Together to Realize Competent Workers."

The Acting Governor of North Sumatra, Major General TNI (Ret.) Dr. Hassanudin, S.I.P., M.M., underlined the importance of commemorating International Labor Day as a moment to remember the long struggle of workers for their rights. He emphasized that the government will continue to protect workers' rights and improve their welfare in North Sumatra.

"Therefore, it is very appropriate if we pin the slogan that my workers are my heroes to all workers wherever they are and let us shout together with enthusiasm," said Hassanudin.

The Acting Governor of North Sumatra also invites all parties, including entrepreneurs and labor unions, to collaborate in creating job opportunities, improving workforce competence, and maintaining economic and social stability. He also highlights the importance of cooperation between the government, entrepreneurs, and labor unions in facing global economic dynamics.

"We must actively provide job opportunities, train the workforce's skills to produce products and services, and take responsibility for improving economic growth," emphasized Hassanudin.

In his speech, the Chairman of the Committee, Ahmadsyah Eben, conveyed that the celebration of May Day resulted from a collaboration between labor unions, the North Sumatra Manpower Office, and the Workers Social Security Agency (BPJS Ketenagakerjaan). Before the main celebration, a public dialogue was held on May 1, 2024, at the Raja Inal Siregar Hall, North Sumatra Governor's Office.

"Forum dialogues like this should be strengthened and fully supported by private and state sponsorships. And, of course, it should be a ceremonial and commitment-building activity," explained Ahmadsyah.

In the dialogue, various issues related to labor policies were discussed to realize pro-worker policies in North Sumatra.

On May 7, the job fair, work exhibition, and public discussions were held. 39 companies from various sectors in North Sumatra attended the job fair. The total number of job applicants who came in person reached 812, while those who registered online reached 1,625. The selection and placement process is still in the finalization stage.

Various activities marked the highlight of the May Day 2024 Festival, including presenting awards and achievements to government officials, police, military, prosecutors, companies, and local governments in North Sumatra.

The celebration of the May Day 2024 Festival in North Sumatra is an event to celebrate labor achievements and a platform to strengthen solidarity between labor, government, and entrepreneurs in building a better and more advanced North Sumatra.

Author: bambang riyanto - staf humas

Interviewee: Dr. Muhammad Arifin Nasution, S.Sos., M.Sp. - Wakil Rektor II USU

Photographer: istimewa - istimewa

News
Community
SDGs
SDGs 8
SDGs 17
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara