MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Adds Five Professors
USU Adds Five Professors
Published At
30 November 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Adds Five Professors
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 30 November 2023

For universities, it is very important to have the number of professors with an ideal ratio as a basis that education, research, and community service services are recognized by the global community. A professor will never stop developing science, spreading the progress of human civilization, and maintaining the ethics/morals of life," said Prof. Muryanto.

USU PR - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) once again inaugurated five permanent USU Professors at the USU Student Center on Monday, (11/20/2023).

The five inaugurated professors are Prof. Ir. Surya Hardi, M.S., Ph.D. from the Faculty of Engineering; Prof. Dr. Iskandar Zulkarnain, M.Si. from the Faculty of Social and Political Sciences; Prof. Dr. Ir. Juliza Hidayati, M.T. from the Faculty of Engineering; Prof. Dr. Tri Widyawati, M.Si., Ph.D. from the Faculty of Medicine; and Prof. Ir. Nazaruddin, M.T., Ph.D. from the Faculty of Engineering.

Professor is the highest achievement of the hard work of lecturers who perform the duties of the Tri Dharma of Higher Education. This task brings challenges and dynamics that continue to grow as the world changes. Therefore, USU Rector Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S. Sos, M. Si in his speech said the number of professors in universities with an ideal ratio is very important to be recognized by the community in education, research, and community service services.

"For universities, it is very important to have the number of professors with an ideal ratio as a basis that education, research, and community service services are recognized by the global community. A professor will never stop developing science, spreading the progress of human civilization, and maintaining the ethics/morals of life," said Prof. Muryanto.

In the current generation, an open and dynamic policy is considered a key policy to respond to changes in communication patterns. The Rector highlighted concrete examples of changes in the behavior of Generation Z and the diversity in professors's understanding of internationally indexed journals as challenges in maintaining the reputation of universities.

"Generation Z, which was originally interactive, after using gadgets the communication process becomes passive, so there is no effective communication. The main measure of international ranking agencies is the number of Scopus-indexed publications. We have decided to become a world-class university whose assessment depends on the number of publications. The main strength comes from lecturers who disseminate their research results in Scopus and WOS indexed international journals and make downstream," explained Prof. Muryanto.

Furthermore, the Rector said that policy changes at USU are part of the contribution to producing the Golden Generation in 2045. The Rector emphasized the expansion of international recognition and fundamental changes in the pattern of education, research, and community service as steps toward world-class university rankings.

"We must make fundamental changes to produce the best patterns of education, research, and community service at USU. The best pattern needs to be exemplified by professors, and coordinated by the USU Council of Professors. The pattern is also an asset to strengthening the educational ecosystem at USU," said Prof. Muryanto.

Meanwhile, Prof. Dr. Iskandar Zulkarnain, M.Si. revealed that as a new Professor in the field of Communication Science who is now also assigned as Head of the Master and Doctoral Study Program in Communication Science FISIP USU, the Postgraduate Program in Communication Science FISIP USU is the only one in the western region. He said he would design and make this Study Program superior.

"As a newly appointed Professor, I am also mandated today for the next 4 years as Chair of the Master and Doctoral Program in Communication Science at FISIP USU. With this achievement, I want my friends to be able to immediately achieve this highest academic level achievement. In the future, of course, we will design, and make this Communication Science study program a leader in the North Sumatra region or the western region. Because this Communication Science Postgraduate Program is the only one outside Java. So I hope this becomes the best icon, "said Prof. Iskandar.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Education
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara