MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Awakening The Passion For Literature On USU Campus, Ngobrol Buku - Indonesian Literature Study Program Discussion With Dee Lestari
Awakening the Passion for Literature on USU Campus, Ngobrol Buku - Indonesian Literature Study Program Discussion with Dee Lestari
Published At
08 February 2025
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Awakening the Passion for Literature on USU Campus, Ngobrol Buku - Indonesian Literature Study Program Discussion with Dee Lestari
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Saturday, 08 February 2025

“It has been a long time since FIB USU presented national writers with good quality work like Dee Lestari. This moment was realized thanks to the collaboration of Bentang Pustaka and Ngobrol Buku; we are very grateful for that. Greetings from the Dean of FIB USU, and we apologize that he could not attend because it coincided with this graduation ceremony, “said Dr. Dardanila.

 

Public Relations USU - Famous writer Dee Lestari was present at the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), precisely to the Faculty of Cultural Sciences (FIB), Saturday (8/2) morning. The writer's presence, also known as a singer to Medan, in a series of book tours Without a Plan, which was previously held in various cities in Indonesia.

 

Dee Lestari closed her trip by holding a peak event at the book review at USU.The event was held in collaboration with Bentang Pustaka, Ngobrol Buku, Kede Buku Obelia, USU Indonesian Literature Study Program, and KBSI (Indonesian Language and Literature Family). Eka Dalanta from Ngobrol Buku moderated the book review event. After the book review and dialog, the event allowed participants to participate in book signing and group photos.

 

Tanpa Rencana is Dee Lestari's most personal work. It presents 18 thought-provoking and emotional stories that evoke thoughts and feelings. The book explores various themes, such as life, death, loss, acceptance, and spirituality. Tanpa Rencana readers are invited to learn about the author's personal side.

 

Dee Lestari, originally from Bandung, is a writer, singer, and songwriter who has produced phenomenal works such as Supernova series, Perahu Kertas, and Filosofi Kopi. In addition to being active in the music world, Dee is also known as a novelist whose works have been adapted into feature films.

 

From November to December 2024, Dee visited seven major cities: Bali, Bandung, Jakarta, Surabaya, Malang, Yogyakarta, and Magelang. The events in these seven cities attracted more than 2,000 participants, confirming readers' high enthusiasm for Tanpa Rencana. 

The book itself sold more than 5,000 copies during the pre-order period, reflecting the overwhelming response from the public. In her presentation, Dee Lestari hoped that her presence at USU could increase the spirit of work for USU students, especially for the Indonesian Literature Study Program, FIB USU. She also shared tips on how to write a good book.

 

“Focus, structured and there must be a deadline,” she said.

 

The Dean of FIB USU, Prof. T Thyrhaya Zein, represented by the Dean's Expert Staff, Dr. Dardanila, in his speech, hoped that this activity would be able to spur literary writers from the USU Campus, especially FIB.

 

The presence of a writer of Dee Lestari's caliber to FIB USU is an award in itself for FIB USU.

 

“It has been a long time since FIB USU presented national writers with good quality work like Dee Lestari. This moment was realized thanks to the collaboration of Bentang Pustaka and Ngobrol Buku; we are very grateful for that. Greetings from the Dean of FIB USU, and we apologize that he could not attend because it coincided with this graduation ceremony, “said Dr. Dardanila.

 

Chairperson of the Indonesian Literature Study Program, FIB USU Prof. Dwi Widayati, also appreciated Dee Lestari's presence. She said that hearing the story of Dee Lestari's success in working could spur students to create novels.

 

“We are very proud that Dee Lestari can come to FIB USU, and we hope that in the future, there will continue to be cooperation and collaboration to stimulate the spirit of literary work at FIB USU,” she said.

 

In addition to students and invited guests, the event, which Juhendri Chaniago hosted, was also attended by lecturers in the Indonesian Literature Study Program, FIB USU, including Prof. Ikhwanuddin Nasution, Emma Marsella, M.Si., Bambang Riyanto, M.Si., Latifah Yusri Nasution, M.Si., and Rachmad Fadillah Maha, M.Si.

News
SDGs 4
SDGs
SDGs 8
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara