MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Vocational Education
Diploma Program In Metrology And Instrumentation
Diploma Program
Metrology and Instrumentation
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Established in 2011, the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Diploma Program in Metrology and Instrumentation is a leading vocational education in measurement science. Our study program focuses on measurement accuracy in science, technology, and industry, including economic and health measurement.

Supported by the best teaching staff with high integrity, this program is committed to producing graduates who are competent, meticulous, observant, and able to compete globally in metrology and instrumentation. Graduates from this program have extensive job opportunities in various industrial sectors, including manufacturing, State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs), and laboratories.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

dipl-metrologi@usu.ac.id

Diploma Program in Metrology and Instrumentation

Accredited Very Good

0176/SK/LAM Teknik/VD3/VIII/2023

Vision of Diploma Program in Metrology and Instrumentation

To become a forum for developing superior skilled personnel education based on competence in metrology based on science and information technology, oriented towards the country's interests to realize honest, fair, and transparent global trade with international standards.

Mission of Diploma Program in Metrology and Instrumentation

Education

Carrying out quality vocational education and national and international standards according to the authority in the profession based on the development of science and information technology in the field of metrology and instrumentation.

Research

Carrying out essential, applied, innovative policy research to support education and technological developments in metrology and instrumentation.

Community Service

Performing community service following the provisions and applicable legal metrology laws in the field of metrology and instrumentation.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Instrumentation

Metrology

Contact Us
Diploma Program in Metrology and Instrumentation
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jalan Bioteknologi No.2 Kampus USU Medan 20155

(+62)-618213250

dipl-metrologi@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara