MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Piloting Of The Wellness Module For Senior Care And Healthy Aging By Faculty Of Medicine
Piloting of the Wellness Module for Senior Care and Healthy Aging by Faculty of Medicine
Published At
08 November 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Piloting of the Wellness Module for Senior Care and Healthy Aging by Faculty of Medicine
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 08 November 2023

The topics presented were yoga and biohacking, with the focus topic being Yoga. We know that yoga is an ancient practice originating from India that focuses on physical postures (asana), breath control (pranayama), meditation, and philosophical teachings. The main goal of yoga is to achieve a balanced and harmonious state of body, mind and spirit. It has many health benefits, including flexibility, strength, balance, stress reduction and increased mental clarity.

Today, at the Faculty of Medicine, Universitas Sumatera Utara, piloting of the Wellness For Senior Care And Healthy Aging module began. This module is part of the fourth pilot module and course of the Erasmus funding SPIRIT Project. The end of this year concludes four courses that have been running on various topics using offline methods.

 

We all know that health problems in the elderly include hearing loss, cataracts, refractive errors, back and neck pain as well as osteoarthritis, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, diabetes, dementia and depression. As we get older, we tend to experience several conditions at the same time.

 

Exercise is very necessary for the elderly, good exercise for the elderly is walking, light jogging, cycling according to individual abilities, yoga and light aerobics. Yoga provides an interesting role for the elderly and has optimal benefits, this was explained by Dr. Gaurav Pant, Managing Director of Sportal Corporate Ltv, India, at the Guest Lecture event in this block. He is a practitioner who brings enlightenment and new views to this block. This event was attended by 65 undergraduate students from the Medical Education Program, Faculty of Medicine, Universitas Sumatera Utara.

 

The topics presented were yoga and biohacking, with the focus topic being Yoga. We know that yoga is an ancient practice originating from India that focuses on physical postures (asana), breath control (pranayama), meditation, and philosophical teachings. The main goal of yoga is to achieve a balanced and harmonious state of body, mind and spirit. It has many health benefits, including flexibility, strength, balance, stress reduction and increased mental clarity.

 

There are various types of Yoga, such as Hatha, Vinyasa, Ashtanga, Kundalini, and some more modern creations. Each style emphasizes different aspects of practice, but all aim to bring harmony and alignment to the practitioner.

 

Biohacking refers to the application of scientific knowledge, self-experimentation, and lifestyle changes to improve one's physical and mental performance. It involves the use of technology, nutrition, supplements, and various lifestyle modifications to optimize health and well-being. The main goal of biohacking is to “hack” or improve the functioning of the body and mind. This results in better performance, increased longevity, and overall health.

 

Biohacking techniques can include optimizing sleep, using nootropics (cognitive enhancers), tracking health metrics, using wearable devices, practicing intermittent fasting, and more. The basic principle of biohacking is to identify areas that need improvement and take proactive steps to fix them.

 

It is hoped that by implementing this block, there will be a deeper understanding of the comprehensive management of old age to bring higher quality to old age.

 

Author: Renny Julia - Staf Humas

Interviewee: Yetty Machrina - mahasiswa

Photographer: Istimewa - Istimewa

News
Erasmus
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara