MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Indonesian Literature Study Program Holds Alumni Gathering
Indonesian Literature Study Program Holds Alumni Gathering
Published At
23 January 2024
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Indonesian Literature Study Program Holds Alumni Gathering
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 23 January 2024

The dean of the FIB, Prof. Dr. T. Thyrhaya Zein, M.A., who attended the event with the first vice dean, Prof. Mauly Purba, Ph.D., said that the alumni gathering was intended to strengthen the Indonesian Literature Study Program, which is currently seeking international accreditation. The event was also a part of the USU Rector Prof. Muryanto Amin's program to internationalize USU.

USU PR- The Indonesian Literature Study Program (Prodi Sastra Indonesia) of the Faculty of Arts (FIB) at the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held a focus group discussion (FGD) as part of an alumni gathering at Cafe Rumah Kayu on Thursday, January 11, 2024.

The dean of the FIB, Prof. Dr. T. Thyrhaya Zein, M.A., who attended the event with the first vice dean, Prof. Mauly Purba, Ph.D., said that the alumni gathering was intended to strengthen the Indonesian Literature Study Program, which is currently seeking international accreditation. The event was also a part of the USU Rector Prof. Muryanto Amin's program to internationalize USU.

"USU is aware that alumni play an important role in strengthening our reputation in the industry world. Alumni who have become professionals in their respective fields certainly have a variety of experiences that can be valuable input for the university to improve the quality of our curriculum and graduates," said Prof. T. Thyrhaya Zein.

Prof. Thyrhaya hoped the event would produce valuable input and result in a harmonious collaboration between alumni and the program.

"We also run the Enhancing Quality Education for International University Recognition or EQUITY program. The EQUITY program is a strategy to rank USU internationally," he said.

The dean of the FIB explained that the EQUITY program is an important step to improve the quality of USU so that it can reach the 500 World Class University ranking. This is done by focusing on developing high-quality human resources, developing relevant research, and innovation in teaching approaches.

The head of the Indonesian Literature Study Program at the FIB, Dr. Dwi Widayati, M.Hum., accompanied by the secretary of the program, Dra. Nurhayati Harahap, M.Hum., explained that the Alumni Gathering was intended as a forum for alumni to share their thoughts and provide input on developing the Indonesian Literature Study Program.

"The alumni who were invited were selected by the program, with a total of about 30 participants with professional backgrounds in their respective fields and holding positions equivalent to middle managers," she said.

Dr. Dwi added that the main agenda of the event was a focus group discussion (FGD) on topics such as sharing professional career experiences, applying the knowledge or theories learned in college, and what knowledge can be applied or taught in the Indonesian Literature Study Program so that graduates of the Indonesian Literature Study Program can be quickly absorbed into the workforce.

"The FGD was also intended to open up broader collaboration between alumni and the program, such as inter-institutional cooperation for the Tri Dharma of PT, alumni as speakers in public lectures, and other collaborations that can be developed in order to advance the Indonesian Literature Study Program, which is now seeking international accreditation," she explained.

The Alumni Gathering was also accompanied by the appointment of a new board of directors for the Indonesian Language and Literature Alumni Association (KBABSI) so that communication and cooperation can be more focused and sustainable.

"Thank you to the USU leadership and the FIB deanate for fully supporting the Alumni Gathering of the Indonesian Literature Study Program at the FIB USU, and also to the alumni who attended and enthusiastically participated in the event," said Dr. Dwi Widayati.

For information, graduates or alumni of the Indonesian Literature Study Program have worked in various fields, such as researchers at the National Research and Innovation Agency (BRIN), the banking sector, the culture sector, government, education, language development, the military, the police, state organizers (KPU/KPI), journalists/media, entrepreneurs, editors, literacy activists, the creative industries, and so on.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
SDGs
SDGs 16
SDGs 17
Alumni & Career
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara