MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Computer Science And Information Technology
Undergraduate Program In Information Technology
Undergraduate Program
Information Technology
Universitas Sumatera Utara

As a study program that has been accredited Excellent and has existed since 2007, the Undergraduate Program in Information Technology of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) has produced outstanding students and created great information technology experts spread throughout Indonesia.

The Undergraduate Program in Information Technology concentrates on the design and development of software and applications as well as computational algorithms. Consisting of experts in the field of technology & information with national teaching certificates and supported by an integrated curriculum, we have a deep commitment to providing education and interactive learning experiences to our students with the hope that our students can become the best people in the field of information technology who are competent, able to compete in the era of digitalization both on a national and international scale. Our graduates have plenty of opportunities to explore professions in many digital fields, including full stack developer, product manager, cyber security, system analyst, etc.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

it@usu.ac.id

Undergraduate Program in Information Technology

Accredited Excellent

No. 021/SK/LAM-INFOKOM/Ak/S/III/2024

Vision of Undergraduate Program in Information Technology

To become a superior and professional study program in the development of knowledge in the field of Information Technology with emphasis on Data Science and Intelligent System to produce graduates with global competitiveness.

Mission of Undergraduate Program in Information Technology

Education

To organize education with excellent academic competence and professionalism in mastering the field of Information Technology that is specialized in the fields of Data Science and Intelligent System.

Research

To organize and develop research and dissemination of research results through planned, innovative, and quality scientific publications in accordance with global developments in the fields of Data Science and Intelligent System.

Information Literacy

To improve information literacy in society through the application of research results, service, and cooperation to elements of society.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Data Science

Software Engineering

Multimedia

Computer Vision

Internet of Things

Network and Security

Intelligent Systems

Contact Us
Undergraduate Program in Information Technology
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Gedung C Fasilkom-TI, Universitas Sumatera Utara, Jl. Alumni No.3, Padang Bulan, Kec. Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20155

(061) 8211633

it@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara