MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Welcomes Archival Technique Visitation Team From The Ministry Of Education And Culture's Training Center
USU Welcomes Archival Technique Visitation Team from the Ministry of Education and Culture's Training Center
Published At
23 July 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
USU Welcomes Archival Technique Visitation Team from the Ministry of Education and Culture's Training Center
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Tuesday, 23 July 2024

"We are very honored and proud because this visit is an important part of our joint efforts to improve the quality of archive management within Kemendikbudristek continuously," said Prof. Fidel.

 

 

USU PR - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) received a visit from the Education and Training Center (Pusdiklat) Team from the Ministry of Education, Culture, Research, and Technology of the Republic of Indonesia (Kemendikbudristek RI) for a Field Visit for the Participants of Basic Archival Technical Training Batch 17 and 18. The visit occurred at the USU Archives Office on Friday (07/05/2024).

 

In his remarks, USU Secretary, Prof. Dr. dr. Muhammad Fidel Ganis Siregar, M.Ked(OG), Sp.OG(K) emphasized the importance of good archive management as a vital element in information management. Well-organized, preserved, and easily accessible archives support administrative efficiency and serve as authentic evidence for various institutional interests.

 

"We are very honored and proud because this visit is an important part of our joint efforts to improve the quality of archive management within Kemendikbudristek continuously," said Prof. Fidel.

 

Furthermore, Prof. Dr. Muhammad Fidel Ganis Siregar, M.Ked(OG), Sp.OG(K) informed that the USU Archives Office had recommended that its education staff participate in the basic archival technical training held by Pusdiklat Kemendikbudristek from June 30 to July 6, 2024. Five archive managers from USU participated in the training.

 

"Therefore, the field study activities through the visit of the Pusdiklat Kemendikbudristek Team will help to see the extent to which the training participants have achieved the learning objectives," said Prof. Fidel.

 

The Head of the Housekeeping and Archives Working Team of the Pusdiklat Kemendikbudristek RI, Sulthan Kasman, S.E., M.Si., explained that the main objective of the visit is to improve the competence of the training participants. This competence cannot only be built by reading or studying in class but must also be done through visits and direct practice.

 

"We hope that the participants can imitate the good practices carried out by the archive managers at USU and then apply them in their respective workplaces," said Sulthan.

 

The Head of the USU Archives Office, Aisyah, S.E., M.Si., also emphasized the importance of field studies in strengthening the training material. According to her, the field study activities, such as the visit of the Pusdiklat Kemendikbudristek Team, will help to see the extent to which the training participants have achieved the learning objectives.

 

"We hope that this visit can provide new inspiration in carrying out tasks in their respective workplaces and expand the network of cooperation and partnerships between the participants involved," said Aisyah.

 

The event then continued with a visit to various archive facilities at USU, where participants could see firsthand how archive management practices are implemented at USU. This visit is expected to provide useful, practical insights for the participants in carrying out archival tasks within the Kemendikbudristek RI environment.

 

 

 

 

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara