MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Indonesian Ministry Of Foreign Affairs Public Lecture At USU
Indonesian Ministry of Foreign Affairs Public Lecture at USU
Published At
19 September 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Indonesian Ministry of Foreign Affairs Public Lecture at USU
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 19 September 2023

Indonesia in navigating the various challenges faced by ASEAN is very necessary. in carrying out Indonesia's chairmanship this year the theme carried is ASEAN Matters: Epicenter of Growth and 3 things become Indonesia's focus during its chairmanship" explained the Indonesian Minister of Foreign Affairs.

USU PR - The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Indonesia together with Universitas Sumatera Utara held a Public Lecture entitled "ASEAN, Global Challenges and the Role of Indonesian Foreign Policy" which was also simultaneously held in 38 provinces in Indonesia. This public lecture was held on Monday, (21/08/2023) in the Senate Meeting Room of USU Central Bureau of Administration Building.

The Public Lecture held at USU representing the province of North Sumatra to reach a massive audience aims to introduce ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations) and educate related about various global challenges as well as Indonesia's important role in foreign policy to students as part of the Republic of Indonesia.

In her virtual speech, Indonesian Foreign Minister Retno Lestari Priansari Marsudi mentioned the theme carried during Indonesia's chairmanship of ASEAN, namely "ASEAN Matters: Epicenter of Growth".

Furthermore, 3 things become the focus, namely laying a strong foundation for the ASEAN 2045 vision during an unfavorable global situation, which means ASEAN must have the capacity to overcome various challenges ahead and be able to make decisions in emergencies. Second, strengthening Southeast Asia as a center of economic growth, and third encouraging the implementation of the ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific.

"Indonesia in navigating the various challenges faced by ASEAN is very necessary. in carrying out Indonesia's chairmanship this year the theme carried is ASEAN Matters: Epicenter of Growth and there are 3 things that Indonesia will focus on during its chairmanship," explained the Indonesian Minister of Foreign Affairs.

"First, we want to lay a strong foundation for the vision of ASEAN 2045 during an unfavorable global situation which means ASEAN must have the capacity to overcome various challenges ahead and be able to make decisions in emergencies. The second is to strengthen Southeast Asia as the Epicenter of Growth as the center of economic growth. For this reason, Indonesia will strengthen ASEAN's defense in various fields of food security, energy, health, climate change, finance, and human resource capacity. The third priority for Indonesia during its chairmanship is to encourage the implementation of the ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific," continued the Indonesian Foreign Minister.

The Rector of Universitas Sumatera Utara Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos, M.Si also explained in his speech how USU as an educational institution has strengthened relations with educational institutions in Asian countries by conducting student exchanges, collaborative research, and other forms of cooperation.

"For a series that strengthens campus relations in Asian countries, what is done is exchange, then there is also collaborative research to maintain or establish cooperation," said the USU Rector.

Representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Indonesia Bhima Dwipayudhanto also thanked USU for its willingness to hold a public lecture. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Indonesia was pleased with the enthusiasm of students during the public lecture with various critical questions asked by students. The activeness of this public lecture proves that it is very on target.

"We are very grateful for the willingness of Universitas Sumatera Utara to be able to cooperate with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to carry out public lectures held simultaneously in 38 provinces. Universitas Sumatera Utara represents North Sumatra Province in our efforts to reach out massively," said Bhima.

"When we see the presence of these students, we are very happy with their enthusiasm and the questions are also quite difficult. We think it is very on target."

Dean of the USU Faculty of Social and Political Sciences, Dr. Hatta Ridho S.Sos., MSP hopes that this public lecture can motivate students to excel by participating in student exchanges and international competitions as well as taking a role in the future by becoming diplomats to fight for Indonesia's economic interests and foreign policy.

"Hopefully it can motivate students to excel and the desire to take part in student exchange activities and then take part in competitions and hopefully one of them can become a diplomat to fight for Indonesia's economic interests while carrying out free and active foreign policy," explained the Dean of FISIP USU.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Education
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara