MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
University Activity
USU Lecturers Give Training On Making Herbal Licking Candy
USU Lecturers Give Training on Making Herbal Licking Candy
Published At
30 August 2022
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
USU Lecturers Give Training on Making Herbal Licking Candy
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Tuesday, 30 August 2022

Harapan Maju is a newly formed farmer and livestock group in Salit Village, Karo Regency. The group was chaired by Saul Sitepu, which consisted of 10 people. The livestock business has been carried out since 2020 and is quite well developed.

However, various obstacles, such as improper management of feeding, become one of the obstacles in the development of livestock productivity. Low body weight, less than optimal meat has a direct impact on reproduction and results in less than maximum profits.

To overcome these problems, the Universitas Sumatera Utara Lecturer Team held Community Service in the form of training and mentoring practices for the Harapan Maju farmer group, through the activity of making herbal licking candy. Herbal licking candy for livestock is an easy and inexpensive way to supply the nutritional needs of goats, because it can increase the digestibility of low-quality feed, thereby improving livestock performance, especially body weight/meat, and reproduction.

The practical training activity was carried out on July 28, 2022, which was attended by the Head of Community Service Peni Patriani, S.Pt, MP, who at the same time gave a speech regarding the goals and directions. The team consists of Prof. Dr. Ir. Hasnudi MS, Uswatun Hasanah, S.Pt, M.Si and Kennie Cendekia Desnamrina, S.Pt., M.Pt, who assisted in the question and answer session.

The training also involved students from the USU Animal Husbandry Study Program, namely Jose Jonery, Muzammil Ihsan, Yosafat Michael Kacaribu, Raihan As'ary, Miko Demus Sitepu, Ayu Nawang Sari and Aprilia Tri Hastuti, who practiced the procedures for making herbal licking candy for goats. The chairman of the Harapan Maju farmer group, Saul Sitepu, on that occasion said that the Community Service activities that have been carried out have had a significant impact on improving science and technology, as well as the skills of farmers in an effort to stimulate goat productivity, through the manufacture of herbal licking candy and the preparation of rations. These activities are also prioritized on the 8th Sustainable development goals (SDGs), namely increasing economic growth (Decent Work and Economic Growth), as well as decent work for the community.

The implementation of science and technology is carried out regarding the preparation of feed and the application of herbal cattle licking candy, which will have an impact on increasing the productivity of goats and can also automatically increase the economic income of the farming community. This community service activity is also in line with the Main Performance Indicators (IKU) 1 and 2, especially for students; namely the off-campus experience through livestock business activities. It is hoped that this activity will foster an entrepreneurial spirit and achieve Key Performance Indicators (KPI) 5; namely the results of science are used for society at large. (Peni/RJ - ©ULC)

USU Lecturers Hold Training on Making Organic Floor Cleaners

Universitas Sumatera Utara lecturers through the Community Service Institute (LPPM), have done community service with the Regular Lecturer Service scheme at the Ar Raudlatul Hasanah Islamic Boarding School on Jalan Jamin Ginting Medan. The service is chaired by Dr. Nurzainah Ginting and consists of Prof. Armansyah Ginting, Ir. Edhy Mirwandhono, MP, M.Si and Prof. Zuhrina, which was held on July 17, 2022. The activity involved four students of the USU Faculty of Agriculture Animal Husbandry Study Program which was coupled with the implementation of the USU MBKM.

Service in the form of training entitled "Optimizing the Benefits of Organic Floor Cleaners Enriched with Jeringau (acorus calamus) at the Ar-Raudlatul Hasanah Islamic Boarding School, Medan Sunggal District, Medan Municipality". There are 3,500 students living in boarding schools of this pesantren in the form of permanent buildings plus a mosque with a total building area of ​​about 80,000 m2. In an effort to clean the floor, a lot of floor cleaners are needed. So far, the cleaners used are chemical floor cleaners. The rest of the process of cleaning the floor is discharged into water bodies, thus having an effect on the biota in the water body, where the total cost required each month is very large.

In this service, we have been taught how to make and use floor cleaners made from organic ingredients, namely fruits enriched with Jeringau (Acorus calamus). This floor cleaner was then named PLOJ (Organic Floor Cleaner enriched with Jeringau). PLOJ from the research results are believed to be able to control microbes such as gram-negative and positive bacteria. PLOJ is made through a fruit fermentation process where the material does not need to be in a new condition but is poor, so PLOJ is also used to manage organic waste. Organic materials can be obtained from the pesantren's kitchen.

The students who participated in this service enthusiastically welcomed the training provided. Sixth grade students promised to make PLOJ in their respective homes after graduating from the pesantren. Currently, female students directly apply PLOJ in their respective dormitories, including the Ruqoyyah dormitory. In addition, there are also female students who wish to make PLOJ and sell it in their neighbourhood, the proceeds of which can be used for further education costs.

Dr. Nurzainah Ginting hopes that the service carried out can provide broad benefits, not only for the Ar Raudlatul Hasanah Islamic boarding school environment, but also for the families of santri/female students spread throughout North Sumatra to Aceh, Riau, Malaysia and Thailand. (RJ- ©ULC)

University Activity
Community Service Activity
Find More Activity
University Activity
USU Lecturer Concern on the Extinction of Orangutan Tapanuli
University Activity
USU professor turns shrimp shell waste into face serum
University Activity
USU Research Collaboration Lowers Stunting Rate in Sergai

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara