MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
10th Anniversary Of USU Faculty Of Forestry: Encouraging Higher Education Acceleration For Golden Indonesian Forestry
10th Anniversary of USU Faculty of Forestry: Encouraging Higher Education Acceleration for Golden Indonesian Forestry
Published At
16 December 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
10th Anniversary of USU Faculty of Forestry: Encouraging Higher Education Acceleration for Golden Indonesian Forestry
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Monday, 16 December 2024

“The USU Faculty of Forestry has shown extraordinary dedication in improving academic and non-academic quality through continuous transformation,” said Prof. Poppy.

USU PR - The Faculty of Forestry of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) celebrated the peak of its 10th Anniversary, with the theme “Accelerating Higher Education Towards Golden Indonesian Forestry Development”. The celebration took place at the Faculty of Forestry USU Kwala Bekala Campus on Monday (09/12/2024).

Vice Rector III of USU, Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan, S.Si., M.Si., Apt. expressed her appreciation for the achievements of the Faculty of Forestry over the past decade. She highlighted the important role of higher education in answering global challenges in the forestry sector.

“The USU Faculty of Forestry has shown extraordinary dedication in improving academic and non-academic quality through continuous transformation,” said Prof. Poppy.

The Vice Rector III also emphasized that the Faculty of Forestry must continue to innovate in the management of forest resources, including climate change mitigation and the use of digital technology. In addition, the Faculty is expected to establish strategic partnerships with the government, the business world, indigenous peoples, and international institutions to accelerate the development of the forestry sector.

“With the vision of the Golden Indonesia 2045, the Faculty of Forestry has a strategic role as a pillar of the natural resource-based economy and guardian of environmental balance,” said Prof. Poppy.

One of the proud achievements expressed in the speech was the success of the USU Forestry Study Program in achieving the highest SINTA score at USU in 2024, outperforming various other study programs. The Dean of the Faculty of Forestry, Dr. Rudi Hartono, S.Hut., M.Si., IPM, also reported that 77.3% of the Faculty's lecturers have doctoral degrees, with 10 of them serving as professors.

“These achievements are clear evidence of the Faculty's commitment in producing forestry professionals with integrity, as well as advancing research and community service,” said Dr. Rudi.

Chairperson of the Anniversary Committee, Dr. Ridwanti Batubara, S.Hut., M.P., explained that the series of activities for the Anniversary of the USU Faculty of Forestry had started since October 16, 2024 with various activities involving the entire academic community and faculty partners. The activity began with a workshop on the development of world bamboo collection plants, a series of sports competitions, Forestry Go Talent, ending with Fun Walk and Planting activities.

“Through this series of activities, we hope to strengthen the relationship between students, lecturers, alumni, and the community, and increase awareness about the importance of sustainable forest management,” said Dr. Ridwanti.

As a higher education institution that has seven centers of excellence in science and technology, such as the Mangrove Science and Technology Study Center and the Tropical Forest Management Study Center, the USU Faculty of Forestry is expected to continue to be a pioneer in forest conservation and sustainable forestry sector development.

News
SDGs 15
SDGs
SDGs 13
SDGs Headline
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara