MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Assessment Of The Fisheries Resource Management PSDKU USU
Assessment of the Fisheries Resource Management PSDKU USU
Published At
06 June 2024
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Assessment of the Fisheries Resource Management PSDKU USU
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 06 June 2024

"The management of this can be transferred to institutions in North Nias in the future," said Vice Rector I.

USU PR—Faculty of Agriculture (FP) received the National Accreditation Field Assessment for the Fisheries Resource Management Study Program at the North Nias Campus on Tuesday (May 21, 2024) at the DH Penny Building, FP, USU.

This field assessment was conducted in a hybrid manner, with the Vice Regent of North Nias, Yusman Zega, A.Pi., M.Si. participating via Zoom Meeting along with three assessment team members and representatives from the National Accreditation Agency for Higher Education (BAN-PT), namely Prof. Dr. Ir. Fredinan Yulianda, M.Sc., Prof. Ir. Agus Tjahjono, M.S., and Qadar Burhanuddin, S.Pt.

The Fisheries Resource Management Study Program is one of the two study programs established under the Off-Campus Study Program (PSDKU) scheme, a collaboration between USU and the North Nias Regency Government. This initiative has been ongoing for approximately three years and aims to enhance the quality of education.

Dr. Edy Ikhsan, S.H., M.A., Vice Rector I of USU, conveyed that the long-term projection of this collaboration is to gradually transfer the management of PSDKU USU to institutions in North Nias, with the primary goal of improving human resources in the region. This aligns with USU's commitment to educating the nation, particularly in disadvantaged areas.

"The management of this can be transferred to institutions in North Nias in the future," said Vice Rector I.

Prof. Dr. Ir. Tavi Supriana, M.S., Dean of FP USU, affirmed full support for the implementation of all points outlined in the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU). He stated that in the process of teaching and community service activities, USU has involved local students, demonstrating the faculty's strong commitment to implementing the three pillars of higher education in North Nias.

"So we fully support all processes related to the three pillars of higher education and prepare how this study program can become independent once we release it," said the Dean of FP.

One of the assessment team members, Prof. Dr. Ir. Fredinan Yulianda, M.Sc., emphasized that the need for human resources in the fisheries and marine sectors is higher compared to the agricultural sector, considering that 70% of Indonesia's territory is oceanic, requiring optimal management. Although there are already many professionals in this sector, there is still a high demand for additional human resources to ensure the sustainability and progress of Indonesia's fisheries and marine sectors. With the Fisheries Resource Management Study Program, it is hoped that it can produce individuals capable of managing these resources.

"Considering that 70% of Indonesia's territory is open sea, it requires individuals with the potential to handle it," said Prof. Fredinan.

Vice Regent of North Nias, Yusman Zega, A.Pi., M.Si, explained that graduates from this study program will not only focus on public projects but will also play a significant role in the management of marine resources, which is highly relevant to the concept of sustainable blue economy. Therefore, he hopes that the Fisheries Resource Management Study Program will produce graduates with analytical skills in managing marine resource projects and capable of creating innovative concepts for developing and utilizing marine resources. He also hopes that the assessment from the assessors will evaluate the current condition and encourage further development.

"It can also provide research results and encourage the development of knowledge in the field of marine resources," said Yusman.

Author: bambang riyanto - staf humas

Interviewee: Edy Ikhsan SH., MA - Wakil Rektor II USU

Photographer: istimewa - istimewa

News
Management
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara