MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Cultural Science
Master's Program In Linguistics
Master Program
Linguistics
Universitas Sumatera Utara

As an advanced study program after the Undergraduate Program in Arts and Literature, the Master's Program in Linguistics of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) has been established since 1997. The Master's Program in Linguistics aims to develop applied linguistic knowledge in translation studies, language and literature education studies, as well as culture and language studies. With experts in the linguistics field with national teaching certification and supported by an integrated curriculum, we are determined to provide intensive and effective guidance and learning experiences for our students. Our main goal is to enhance students' abilities and prepare them to become competent linguists who excel in their fields so they can compete in the national and international markets. Graduates of the Master's Program in Linguistics can apply and develop knowledge and technology in theoretical linguistics, applied linguistics, literature, and culture.

Graduates of the Master's Program in Linguistics have the potential to carry out their professions in various fields, such as translators, educational practitioners (language teachers), and writers.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

mlinguistik@usu.ac.id

Master's Program in Linguistics

Accredited Excellent

No. 1704/SK/BAN-PT/Ak.KP/M/V/2023

Vision of Master's Program in Linguistics

To become an outstanding Master's Program in Linguistics in the development and application of theoretical linguistics and applied linguistics on a national scale and gain international recognition by the year 2020.

Mission of Master's Program in Linguistics

Quality and Innovative

To provide quality and innovative theoretical and applied linguistic education services.

Research

To develop theoretical and applied linguistic research.

Community Service

To implement community service activities by developing innovative products for language and culture cultivation within society.

Cooperation

To establish synergistic cooperation with other institutions in the activities of the Three Pillars of Higher Education on local, national, and international scales.

Professional

To enhance professional interactions in scientific activities, both interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary.

Quality Graduates

To create a conducive academic atmosphere to produce graduates of quality.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Linguistics

Literature

Translation

Contact Us
Master's Program in Linguistics
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Abdul Hakim No.1 Padang Bulan, Kec. Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20222

(061) - 8223530

mlinguistik@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara