MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Premiere, USU Holds PKKMB For New Postgraduate Students
Premiere, USU Holds PKKMB for New Postgraduate Students
Published At
19 September 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Premiere, USU Holds PKKMB for New Postgraduate Students
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 19 September 2023

Well, the difference is, now after graduation, we also welcome new students who are included in PKKMB, just like the undergraduates, but with different material," The Rector explained

USU PR-Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) immediately held the Introduction to Campus Life for New Students (PKKMB) for the Postgraduate program, on Saturday, (07/26/2023) at the USU Auditorium.

This campus life introduction activity is the first time it has been carried out for a postgraduate program. USU Rector Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos, M.Si said the entry selection process for undergraduate and graduate students was quite strict from previous years. The USU Rector also said that there are several differences in the selection process for new student admissions this time. The first difference is in the selection process. This year the admission process is carried out collectively and uses a digital base. Then after passing the selection, the university welcomes new students with PKKMB. The last difference conveyed by the USU Rector is in the attribute equipment. This year, new postgraduate students can have attributes before lectures begin.

"Well, the difference is, now after graduation, we also welcome new students who are included in PKKMB, just like the undergraduates, but with different material," The Rector explained

In line with that, the USU Rector said that postgraduate program students are required to have product outputs from learning, which is International Publication. This is based on the Ministry of Education, Culture, Research, and Technology (Kemendikbudristek) Policy for Transformation of Education Standards and Higher Education Accreditation for each study program. If the policy has been officially issued, USU's postgraduate program students are required to have one reputable international journal publication. The USU Rector urges that the journal can be published in Scopus.

The Rector also explained that if a student succeeds in publishing an article in a reputable journal in Quarter 3 or Quarter 2, then the student no longer needs to study and take courses.

"At most 2 years Masters graduate student can publish an article in a Q-3 or Q-2 reputable journal, then he no longer needs to go to college. There is no need to take courses in the old habit," explained the USU Rector.

This also applies if students do want not to take the final exam. The USU Rector said that students do not need to take a series of thesis exams, dissertation exams, or open promotions if a student can publish 2 Scopus international journals in Quarter 1.

"Likewise, for example, there is no need for a thesis exam or dissertation exam, open promotion if the student has been able to publish Scopus international journals in Q-1, for example for dissertations, doctorates as many as 2. So there is no need for him to take an open promotion exam," said the USU Rector.

Therefore, to facilitate students in writing and publishing scientific papers during the post-graduate process, the USU Rector urges students to visit the USU Scientific Writing Institute.

On the other hand, the Director of the Directorate of Student Achievement and Alumni Relations (Ditmawalumni) USU, Doli Muhammad Jafar Dalimunthe SE., M.Si., also explained the obligations of students in publishing journals. He explained that this publication is mandatory at the university for ranking. In other words, graduate students have a very large contribution to achieving university publications.

"This publication is also a mandate at the university that the University must have a certain number of publications for ranking," said Doli.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Muhammad Andriansyah - Humas

News
Campus Life
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara