MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
President Joko Widodo Appreciates USU For Creating Excellent
President Joko Widodo Appreciates USU for Creating Excellent
Published At
31 October 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
President Joko Widodo Appreciates USU for Creating Excellent
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 31 October 2022

The President also appreciated USU contribution to the advancement of the nation's human resources in educating students to become individuals with integrity and entrepreneurial spirit as well as producing alumni who work in various fields and help overcome problems of the nation.

USU PR - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) celebrated the peak of its anniversary by holding an Open Session for the 70th USU Anniversary. Taking the theme "Towards Entrepreneurial University", the open session was held offline at the Auditorium of the Universitas Sumatera Utara and broadcast online through the USU Official Youtube channel on Thursday, (10/20/2022).

President Joko Widodo in his speech said, USU 70th Anniversary is expected to be a momentum to transform into a center for the development of science and technology with international standards.

The President also appreciated USU contribution to the advancement of the nation's human resources in educating students to become individuals with integrity and entrepreneurial spirit as well as producing alumni who work in various fields and help overcome problems of the nation.

"I invite the USU academic community to continue to innovate to improve performance and make USU the foremost in contributing to the progress of Indonesia," Jokowi said, in his remarks.

The theme "Towards Entrepreneurial University" with the tagline of creation, innovation, and achievement carried out at the USU 70th anniversary celebration is in line with the USU Rector's Priority Program 2021-2026 and the USU Strategic Plan 2020-2024 as well as an illustration of the entrepreneurial spirit of the USU Academic Community in increasing creation, innovation, and achievement of nation building priorities post-pandemic.

USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos.M.Si in his report explained that the commemoration of the 70th USU Anniversary strengthens the entrepreneurial spirit so that Indonesia can survive and strengthen economics foundation of the nation when facing a potential recession in 2023. This spirit is realized by designing inclusive education programs.

"Inclusive education is a mandatory development policy as well as competitive development which is carried out complementary in all work units within USU," Muryanto Amin explained.

USU Rector's Priority Program 2021-2026 and USU Strategic Plan 2020-2024 which focus on the development of USU as a university that combines innovative learning programs, downstream research, and innovative products used by the community, government and industry.

"The commemoration of the 70th USU Anniversary strengthens the entrepreneurial spirit, in order to face a potential recession in 2023. Indonesia can survive and strengthen the nation's economic foundation through technology development and national industrial innovation in order to reduce Indonesia's dependence on imported products," Muryanto said.

Mury explained that at the national level USU is already in the 12th best university ranking. Meanwhile, in the 2021 QA World University Ranking (WUR) this campus is ranked 1,201+, this is the first time USU has entered the prestigious ranking.

"The target is that by 2039 USU will become a university that has academic excellence as a barometer of scientific progress that is able to compete at the global level," he said.

He said, one way to achieve this is through educational transformation, changing learning programs to be innovative, down-streaming research and innovation products to the community, government and industry.

Chairman of the USU 70th Anniversary Committee, Dr. Fadli SE., M.Sc., explained that the theme for the 70th anniversary celebration was USU's effort to be independent by relying on the "Transformation Towards the Ultimate" policy launched by the USU Rector. The policy is based on the development of human resources, infrastructure, and networking.

“Independent in terms of ability but also supported by a good network with the government, industry, and the world of work. It is hoped that USU can be better in the future," Fadli said

The USU 70th Anniversary Session was also attended by the Governor of North Sumatra, Lieutenant General TNI (Ret.) H. Edy Rahmayadi, and the Mayor of Medan, Muhammad Bobby Nasution, S.E., M., followed by a scientific oration delivered by the Chairman of the Advisory Council. Indonesian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KADIN) Anindya Novyan Bakrie, B.Sc, MBA.

The focus of the speech was on how USU as an entrepreneurial university has responded to several revolutions after the digital revolution, such as the sustainability revolution and the life science revolution. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara