MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Medicine
Doctoral Program In Medical Science
Doctoral Program
Medical Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Doctoral Program in Medical Science of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is the highest level of higher education in the medical science field. This program is designed with the latest curriculum and supported by expert and qualified lecturers and international standards.

Through a series of lessons provided, this program aims to train students to contribute to the development of medical theory and conduct high-quality research to support the advancement of medical science at large. Graduates of this study program will be awarded the Doctor (Dr.) degree.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

dean.med@usu.ac.id

Doctoral Program in Medical Science

Accredited Very Good

No. 0561/LAM-PTKes/Akr/Dok/VII/2022

Vision of Doctoral Program in Medical Science

To become a leading center for Doctoral education in the field of Medical Science in Indonesia with international insight, especially in tropical medicine and molecular oncology, by 2024.

Mission of Doctoral Program in Medical Science

Education

To organize quality academic education in accordance with medical science and technology advancement, especially in tropical medicine and molecular oncology.

Research

To develop new medical theories through quality research, especially in tropical medicine and molecular oncology.

Community Service

To organize community service in the field of Medical Science based on research, especially in tropical medicine and molecular oncology, to improve the welfare of society.

Doctorate

To open opportunities for doctors who have graduated from the master’s or specialist doctor level to continue their education to the Doctoral level.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Contact Us
Doctoral Program in Medical Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Dr. Mansyur No. 5, Padang Bulan, Kec. Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20155

(061) - 8211045

dean.med@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara