MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Engineering
Engineer Profession Education
Profession Program
Engineer Profession Education
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Professional Engineer Education is an advanced level education program intended for undergraduate in engineering graduates to obtain their professional certificate. This study program aims to produce engineers who are competent, ethical, innovative, and able to collaborate, preparing them to take a leading role in various engineering sectors.

The vision of the Professional Engineer Education Program is to become an engineering study program that excels and competes globally in terms of scientific quality and professional engineering skills. Graduates from this program have access to a wide range of sectors, including technology, manufacturing, construction, energy, transportation, automation, and software development and information technology. They also have opportunities in innovative sectors such as technology, artificial intelligence, and more. Students who complete this professional program will be awarded the title of Engineer (Ir.) and are ready to contribute to the development of technology and industry with their skills and expertise.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

ppi@usu.ac.id

Engineer Profession Education

Accredited B

No. 6443/SK/BAN-PT/Akred/PP/X/2020

Vision of Engineer Profession Education

To become an excellent and globally competitive engineering study program in the scientific quality and proficiency of Professional Engineers.

Mission of Engineer Profession Education

Competent Graduates

Prepare graduates with an engineering identity who are characterized, knowledgeable, skilled, dignified, and qualified to compete nationally and internationally, and make the USU Campus a center for Professional Engineering Programs.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Civil Engineering

Industrial Engineering

Mechanical Engineering

Architecture

Electrical Engineering

Science

Contact Us
Engineer Profession Education
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Almamater, USU Campus, Medan City - 20155

(+62) - 618212090

ppi@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara