MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Emphasizing Campus Internationalization Program In The Dean Inauguration, The Chancellor Of Universitas Sumatera Utara Delivered Four Important Messages
Emphasizing Campus Internationalization Program in the Dean Inauguration, The Chancellor of Universitas Sumatera Utara Delivered Four Important Messages
Published At
14 July 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Emphasizing Campus Internationalization Program in the Dean Inauguration, The Chancellor of Universitas Sumatera Utara Delivered Four Important Messages
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 14 July 2021

USU’s Chancellor explained four important messages to the newly inaugurated deans during his remarks at the Inauguration of the Dean of USU on Monday (5/17/21) at USU Pancasila Building. Campus internationalization effort becomes the main focus of USU Chancellor.

MEDAN - USU Public Relation: Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos, M.Si, the Chancellor of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), emphasized the importance of collaboration and contribution of all parties in USU for the success of the USU Strategic Plan (Renstra) 2021-2026. It is stated that campus internationalization is a major focus of the strategic plan.

 

USU’s Chancellor explained four important messages to the newly inaugurated deans during his remarks at the Inauguration of the Dean of USU on Monday (5/17/21) at USU Pancasila Building. Campus internationalization effort becomes the main focus of USU Chancellor.

 

"Our primary goal is campus internationalization for the next five years. Since the oath of office was taken, the deans must recall that this goal is in the strategic plan 2021-2026," he explained.

 

He stated that campus internationalization is not an easy task. It takes tenacity and foresight to make it happen. As a result, he emphasized that the Dean, as a public official, must be able to compile a list of work priorities. 

 

"We need to decide which program is the most important. You must, of course, be able to recognize opportunities, obstacles, and challenges. This list can help determine which priorities to prioritize first in a plan," the Chancellor said.

 

The identification process must begin with the study program in the faculty. The Chancellor emphasized that the elected deans must be able to identify and recognize all study programs under his supervision. The study program, according to the Chancellor, is the first and most important step toward achieving the goal of campus internationalization. 

 

"Our basis does not reside in faculties or universities. Our basis is the study program. There is no good faculty if the study program is not good, neither is the university. It should be recognized that the study program is the forefront because the study program has direct contact with students and the lecturers," he explained.

 

The Chancellor stated in his next message that the deans, as public officials, must have qualified competencies and moral skills to carry out their duties and responsibilities. Qualified competencies and a moral character are both required qualifications to become a public official. 

 

"The non-mediocre qualifications are required so that someone who is referred to as a public official or a technocrat has qualified skills. Furthermore, the public officials must have moral standards to carry out their mandate effectively," Muryanto Amin stated.

 

He compared a public official to the figure of The Right Man in The Right Place. With good and well-planned management capabilities, these officials are capable of meeting the existing challenges and obstacles. As a result, he believes that USU will be a well-known international campus within the next five years.

 

He also advised that all efforts made to implement the program be surrendered to Allah SWT. In addition to working hard to complete all of the work, he emphasized to the appointed public officials to always pray to Allah SWT. 

 

"The third part is for us to all surrender to Allah SWT for our work and efforts. Because those work and efforts will fail in the absence of prayer. We pray that Allah SWT will grant and facilitate all of our efforts. Don't let us do everything but pray; it means that we do not know who we are," said the Chancellor of USU.

 

Furthermore, he also advised that the deans should be able to serve their best skills and tricks while carrying out this difficult job to overcome the existing problems. 

 

"The tricks are needed to become a champion university to catch up in national and international rankings. I am confident that the deans are the best manpower to establish good management and produce qualified graduates," he said.

 

During this event, fifteen deans were inaugurated for the 2021-2026 term of service. The deans who were inaugurated were Prof. Dr. dr. Aldy Safruddin Rambe, Sp S(K) serves as Dean of the Faculty of Medicine, Dr. Mahmul Siregar, SH, M Hum serves as Dean of the Faculty of Law, Dr. Ir Tavi Supriana, MS serves as Dean of the Faculty of Agriculture, Dr. Ir Fahmi, ST, M Sc, IPM serves as Dean of the Faculty of Engineering, Dr. Fadli, SE, M.Si serves as Dean of the Faculty of Economics and Business, Dr. Trelia Boel drg. M.Kes, Sp.RKG(K), serves as Dean of the Faculty of Dentistry, Dr. Dra. T Thyrhaya Zein, MA serves as Dean of the Faculty of Cultural Sciences, Dr. Nursahara Pasaribu, M.Sc serves as Dean of the Faculty of Mathematics and Sciences, Drs. Hendra Harahap, M.Si, PhD serves as Dean of the Faculty of Social and Political Sciences, Prof. Dr. Dra. Ida Yustina, M.Si serving as Dean of the Faculty of Public Health, Zulkarnain, PhD, Psychologist serves as Dean of the Faculty of Psychology, Khairunnisa, S.Si, M.Pharm, PhD, Apt serves as Dean of the Faculty of Pharmacy, Dr. Dudut Tanjung, S.Kp, M.Kep, Sp.KMB serves as Dean of the Faculty of Nursing, Dr. Maya Silvi Lydia , B.Sc, M.Sc serves as Dean of F faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology and Dr. Rudi Hartono, S.Hut, M.Si serves as the Dean of the Faculty of Forestry.

 

The USU Board of Trustees, USU Board of Professors, USU Academic Senate, Vice-Chancellors, former Faculty Deans, and guests were also present at the appointments, which took place both online and offline. 

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara