MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Inaugurates 57 New Engineers, Strengthening The Role Of The Profession In The Era Of Transformation
USU Inaugurates 57 New Engineers, Strengthening the Role of the Profession in the Era of Transformation
Published At
11 May 2025
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Inaugurates 57 New Engineers, Strengthening the Role of the Profession in the Era of Transformation
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Sunday, 11 May 2025

“This is a momentum for us to strengthen the role of engineering in facing the Society 5.0 era, where engineers must be able to think systemically, adapt, and have an impact,” said Prof. Edy.

 

Public Relations USU -  Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) once again gave birth to dozens of new professionals in the field of engineering through the Inauguration of Engineers Batch XIII of the Professional Engineer Education Study Program (PSPPI). A total of 57 participants were officially inaugurated, consisting of 4 regular pathway graduates and 53 from the Recognition of Past Learning (RPL) pathway. It took place at the USU Faculty of Engineering Hall, on Thursday (08/05/2025).

 

This inauguration marks USU's continued commitment to strengthening the role of engineers amid the dynamics of development needs and technological transformation. Since its opening in the 2017/2018 academic year, PS PPI USU has graduated 597 engineers, with 30 active students enrolled in the 2024/2025 academic year.

 

In his speech, Vice Rector I of USU, Prof. Dr. Edy Ikhsan, S.H., M.A., said that today's engineering profession plays a vital role in breaking the boundaries of development traditions towards digital transformation and sustainable technology. According to him, engineers must be technically proficient but also ethical, collaborative, and have a progressive national vision.

 

“This is a momentum for us to strengthen the role of engineering in facing the Society 5.0 era, where engineers must be able to think systemically, adapt, and have an impact,” said Prof. Edy.

 

The USU Vice Rector I also emphasized that the title of engineer is not merely a formal status, but also a social responsibility. As an educational institution, USU is committed to ensuring graduates are ready to work and contribute through innovation, appropriate technology development, and professional dedication.

 

The Dean of the USU Faculty of Engineering, Prof. Dr. Ir. Fahmi, S.T., M.Sc., IPM, said this success resulted from close cooperation between the study program and PII and strong support from various sectors. He also invited the graduates to become promoters for PSPPI USU so that they could immediately complete their professional legality as mandated by the law.

 

“We hope that graduates will become engineer ambassadors who can socialize the importance of STRI and support the achievement of the Advanced Indonesia 2045 target, both in quantity and quality of national engineering human resources,” he said.

 

Meanwhile, Chairman of the Indonesian Engineers Association (PII) North Sumatra Region, Dr. Ir. Ahmad Perwira Mulia, M.Sc., IPU, said that the engineer degree awarded today is the first step to fulfill the mandate of Law No. 11/2014 on Engineering. This certification is also the initial requirement in obtaining an Engineer Registration Certificate (STRI) as an official license to practice in the engineering field, similar to the practice license for doctors.

 

"The title of engineer is not just a symbol, but an ethical and legal responsibility. This profession is recognized nationally and at the ASEAN and Asia Pacific regional levels," said Dr. Ahmad.

 

The PII North Sumatra Region Chairman also highlighted the fundamental difference between engineer certification and SKA (Certificate of Expertise) from LPJK. According to him, the title of engineer carries a broader and more dignified professional dimension as it demands integrity, legal responsibility, and long-term work reputation.

News
SDGs 11
SDGs
SDGs 1
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara