MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
University Activity
Rumpon (Fish Aggregating Device), A “Humane” Fishing Activity
Rumpon (Fish Aggregating Device), a “Humane” Fishing Activity
Published At
30 August 2022
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
Rumpon (Fish Aggregating Device), a “Humane” Fishing Activity
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Tuesday, 30 August 2022

The fish that swim in the ocean bring blessings to our lives, let's catch them properly without destroying their habitat and ecosystem.

Humans are creatures with reason and manners to preserve life on earth without harming nature. Humanizing humans is a teaching sentence to become civilized. But sometimes, humans forget that nature provides its benefits and must be treated well. Hurting the sea is tantamount to disturbing the earth. Humans often oppress the ocean, which is home to fish and other aquatic creatures. The problem of illegal fishing, the practice of fishery using potassium explosives, must soon meet its end.

Indonesia's vast territorial waters and abundant marine resources play an important role in Indonesia's economic growth and are one of the prima donnas of national development. As the world's largest maritime and archipelagic country, Indonesia has considerable fisheries resources. Unfortunately, this natural blessing creates gratitude and is accompanied by irresponsible fishing activities that damage the environment.

Fishing that is not environmentally friendly is a bad activity that can cause huge losses. The ethics of fishing itself is clearly stated in the Regulation of the Minister of Maritime Affairs and Fisheries (Permen KP) Number 18 of 2021 concerning the Placement of Fishing Gear and Fishing Aids in the State Fisheries Management Area of the Republic of Indonesia and the High Seas and the Arrangement of Fishing Andons. Prohibited fishing gears include drag nets (Gogol, pair seine, centering, and basic lampara), helicopter nets (slatted bottom trawl, shrimp bottom trawl, boarded twin trawl, ship bottom trawl, midship trawl, and fish trawl), gill nets (jumpers) and other fishing gears (muro ami).

Environmentally unfriendly fishing operations are often characterized by diverse catches and the capture of unfit fish. While these activities, which destroy fish habitats, can improve fishermen's economies and contribute to the quantity of catches, they can biologically disrupt the balance of aquatic ecosystems. Looking at these problems, a team of community service lecturers at the University of North Sumatra headed to Sorkam, Central Tapanuli. The team, led by Vindy Rilani Manurung, initiated science-based marine product management through the Rumpon (FAD) program.

FADs, an Environmentally Friendly Fishing Tool

FADs are the most recommended fishing tool because they are artificial corals intended as homes and gathering places for fish on the seabed. FADs are classified as environmentally friendly because they do not harm fish or the environment but localize the targeted fish.

In addition to FADs, many environmentally friendly fishing tools exist, including gillnets and entangling nets that block schools of fish, hook, and line with or without baited lines, falling gears, dredges with wooden or metal frames, surrounding nets that block fish's swimming direction, lift nets that are stretched using a frame, and grappling and wounding devices such as spears or lungs.

FADs are very effective at increasing catches by creating small environments that are then cultivated without damaging the surrounding marine ecosystem. FADs are made using essential items in the sea, such as tires, branches, tree branches, and other items. These items are simultaneously inserted with concrete ballast or other rocks so that the position of the FAD cannot move freely by sea currents. The use of FADs in fishing is inspired by the behavior of fish that like to follow objects floating in the water. But of course, skill and experience in using the tool also affect the effort to get a satisfactory catch.

The existence of FADs also helps fishermen reach closer waters without requiring enormous costs. In addition to making it easier for fishermen to find places to operate fishing gear and increase catches, FADs also contribute to preventing destructive fishing caused by explosives and poisons. The perspective on the benefits of FADs is oriented towards increasing fish production without taking away and polluting marine life.

This dedication, which leans on Sustainability Development Goals (SDGs) number 14, conserving and sustainably utilizing marine and oceanic resources for sustainable development, is a breath of fresh air for the recovery of fish stocks and the viability of fish barns in a short time.

Activities with noble goals will be met with good roads and results. This is also proven by the synergy of the community service team to end senseless fishing, welcomed by the enthusiasm of the community group. FADs in the service program use a non-operational boat frame with a size of 4m x 1.5m. The boat is then modified by adding coconut fronds, palm fronds, or thatch and given concrete weights using a cast. The whole activity took approximately 2 weeks to complete.

Assisted by fellow lecturers Ipanna Enggar Susetya, S.Kel., M.Si., Nur Ulina Warnisyah Br Sebayang, S.P., M.Agr. and Zulham Apandy Harahap, S.Kel., M.Si., June 26, 2022 became the day to release the FADs at the fishing ground location, which is approximately 5 miles from the coast, close to Sorkam Island and towards Mursala Island. This activity consisted of a team of lecturers, along with POKMASWAS partners, Navy representatives, and 5 Aquatic Resource Management Study Program students using eight fishing boats.

Even though they had to deal with unfriendly weather and strong sea currents, it did not dampen the spirit of releasing FADs. The completion of the FAD release was delayed by 4 hours. After the FADs float, it brings hope that fishing will become more ethical and environmentally friendly in the future.

Assistance from the service team in the form of applying FADs, namely Fishing Aids, is expected to restore sea stability. This new start of fishing without hurting its habitat in the future will also help the welfare of fishermen. None other than because the stability of the marine ecosystem certainly also affects the lives of humans who utilize the wealth of the sea in a “humane” way. (Noniya)

University Activity
Community Service Activity
Find More Activity
University Activity
USU Lecturer Concern on the Extinction of Orangutan Tapanuli
University Activity
USU professor turns shrimp shell waste into face serum
University Activity
USU Research Collaboration Lowers Stunting Rate in Sergai

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara