MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU's Indonesian Literature Study Program Workshop: The Role Of Literature In Boosting Tourism
USU's Indonesian Literature Study Program Workshop: The Role of Literature in Boosting Tourism
Published At
05 November 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU's Indonesian Literature Study Program Workshop: The Role of Literature in Boosting Tourism
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 05 November 2021

Professor of Sebelas Maret University Prof. Dr. Bani Sudardi, M.Hum in his presentation said, currently developing a new concept called tourism literature (literary tourism), an attempt to combine literary studies and tourism approaches. There are 3 things that can be studied in this regard, namely: (1) Literature on tourism, (2) Literature for tourism, (3) Literature on tourism.

USU PR - Indonesian Literature Study Program, Faculty of Cultural Sciences (FIB) Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held a Workshop with the theme "Raising the Potential of Literature to Increase Tourist Attraction", Saturday (10/23/2021) by presenting the speaker Prof. Dr. Bani Sudardi, MHum from Sebelas Maret University.

The event, which was opened by the Dean of FIB USU, Dr. T Thyrhaya Zein, MA, represented by Deputy Dean III Mhd Pujiono, PhD, was moderated by Bambang Riyanto, S.S., M.Si. In his speech, Mhd Pujiono said that literature plays an important role in aspects of life. "To quote the words of Pramoedya Ananta Toer, the nation's great writer: without loving literature, we are only intelligent animals. This indicates that literature has an important role in honing and changing human character," he said.

Head of the Indonesian Literature Study Program Dr. Dra Dwi Widayati, MHum accompanied by Secretary Dra Nurhayati Harahap, MHum said that literary tourism was appointed as a workhsop theme because literary developments towards increasing tourism promotion were increasing. However, there has been no detailed discussion regarding the role of literature in tourism.

"The speakers presented are professors of literature who are concerned with the development of tourism literature. We hope that the presentations presented can add to the research treasury, be it theses or theses or dissertations of students who take a concentration of literature related to themes related to tourism literature," he said.

Dr. Dwi explained that the rapid development of literature is related to various other aspects of science. In the context of interdisciplinary literature, tourism literature is a theory that is currently receiving attention. "Hopefully this workshop will be able to contribute ideas and enrich knowledge related to the development of literature itself," he said.

Professor of Sebelas Maret University Prof. Dr. Bani Sudardi, MHum in his presentation said, currently developing a new concept called tourism literature (literary tourism), an attempt to combine literary studies and tourism approaches. There are 3 things that can be studied in this regard, namely: (1) Literature on tourism, (2) Literature for tourism, (3) Literature on tourism.

"Literature on tourism is the study of literary works that contain tourist objects or tourist attractions and other matters related to tourism. Literature on tourism can also involve attractions, accessibility, facilities, and tourism institutions. The form of literature about tourism is literary works which tells about tourism, either explicitly or implicitly. This study is often related to folklore. For example, the Rawa Pening tourist attraction is closely related to the Rawa Pening legend," he said.

Prof. Bani explained, a well-known character as a writer of literature on tourism is Mark Twain, so he is dubbed a travel writer and his work is called a travelogue. Mark Twain's 7 works, 4 of which are travelouge. Mark Twain's book can make a tourist have knowledge about the tourist attraction to be visited so as to reduce the possibility of culture shock or culture shock.

I Nyoman Darma Putra's study of romantic expressions and criticism of Tourism in Bali in the eyes of four poets is also very interesting. The first is a study of the poet Intoyo's romantic expression about the island of Bali.

Bali Island

Very Beautiful

Beautiful scenery

Magnificent Bukit Batur

The vast Lake Batur

Generate unlimited enthusiasm

Heartbreak becomes clear silence

Ready to receive God's loving gift

Oh, Bali is a beautiful island

You are praised every second

"Another aspect that is studied in tourism literature is the use of literary works to increase tourist attraction. This aspect is the aspect that is most studied and studied by tourism and literary observers. The oldest use of literature for tourism purposes in Indonesia is the Ramayana ballet at the Temple Complex Prambanan since 1961. The Ramayana Ballet is a series of colossal dance performances that are staged regularly. Not just an ordinary colossal dance, more than that, the Ramayana Ballet is a form of a blend of Javanese arts in the form of dance, drama and music that is performed magnificently on stage. "The name, this colossal dance also tells the story of the Kakawin Ramayan, which is the oldest kakawin in Javanese literature since the 8th century which was later also used as the main relief at Prambanan Temple," he said.

The third part of tourism literature is literature in tourism. This study is to discuss special tourism related to literature. One tangible form of tourism is special pilgrimages to the tombs of writers such as the tomb of king Ali Haji on Penyengat Island, the tomb of Ngabehi Ronggowarsito in Palar Klaten, or other tombs that are driven by communities.

"This is the need for us, to record graves such as the tomb of Chairil Anwar, the tomb of WS Rendra, the tomb of Amir Hamzah, and so on. At least if the tomb is not found, then the data is on several places related to the writer," he said.

Another form is, the existence of a literature contained in a tourist attraction. In Parangtritis Jogjakarta, precisely on Parang Kusuma beach, it is believed to be the meeting place for Panembahan Senopati and Ratu Kidul. This place is the gateway to Panembahan Senopati's entrance to the southern sea coast to meet Ratu Kidul.

In terms of conditions, this place is actually a very good natural tourist spot, but with the addition of the folklore, the place becomes meaningful. As a result, special interest tourists or may be referred to as religious tourism at night often come to Parangkusuma to perform rituals in it. (Anonymous 2004). That is, the oral literature about Panembahan Senopati and Ratu Kidul has become a tourist attraction in literature.

"Another example is tourism on Air Manis beach, West Sumatra. The scenery on the beach is actually very beautiful with fine sand, coconut trees, and bays that give rise to a unique view of the sea. On the beach, it is believed that there is a legacy of Malin Kundang who was famous for being disobedient to the people. his mother who became a stone on the beach. The local community made a replica of Malin Kundang who became a stone and his ships. But actually, if we look at the place where Malin Kundang became a stone, it is not appropriate because the area is not a port area," he emphasized. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Humas - PR

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara