MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Field Assessment Of The Master's Program In Property Management At USU
Field Assessment of the Master's Program in Property Management at USU
Published At
25 March 2024
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Field Assessment of the Master's Program in Property Management at USU
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 25 March 2024

"The success of achieving the best accreditation for the Master's Program in Property Management and Assessment at the USU Graduate School also has implications for increasing the motivation of the leaders, lecturers, and students in this program to achieve the set performance targets," said Prof. Poppy.

USU PR — The Independent Accreditation Agency for Economics, Business Management, and Accounting (LAMEMBA) conducted a field assessment of the Master's Program in Property Management and Assessment at the USU Graduate School, bringing in two assessors, Prof. Sani Susanto, M.T., Ph.D., CRMP, IPU, AER from Parahyangan Catholic University, and Dr. Nimmi Zukbainarni, S.Pi, M.Si from IPB University. The assessment took place in the Meeting Room on the 1st Floor of the Graduate School on Thursday (Feb. 21)

Vice Rector III for Research, Community Service, and Cooperation, Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan, S.Si., M.Si., Apt., welcomed the arrival of the assessors from LAMEMBA as part of the accreditation process for the Master's Program in Property Management and Assessment at USU.

"First of all, we express our gratitude and welcome to the Assessor Team from the Independent Accreditation Agency for Economics, Business Management, and Accounting, who have attended today's Field Assessment," said Prof. Poppy.

Vice Rector III stated that the Master's Program in Property Management and Assessment at USU is the first master's program in Indonesia that offers higher education in property management and assessment. Therefore, she hopes this program's leaders, lecturers, and students will increase their motivation to achieve the set performance targets and generate various important innovations and breakthroughs in academic and non-academic fields.

"The success of achieving the best accreditation for the Master's Program in Property Management and Assessment at the USU Graduate School also has implications for increasing the motivation of the leaders, lecturers, and students in this program to achieve the set performance targets," said Prof. Poppy.

Vice Rector III hopes to provide the best results for the Property Management and Assessment Program accreditation at the USU Graduate School through this field assessment, maintaining the excellent status achieved before. This assessment will also serve as an indicator of the success of the implemented work program and an evaluation of all the shortcomings in both academic and administrative services.

Furthermore, Prof. Sani Susanto, M.T., Ph.D., CRMP, IPU, AER, explained his role as an assessor is to check and ensure that what is written in the evaluation documents and other documents corresponds to the reality in the field."Our task is to check and ensure that what is claimed is true," said Prof. Sani.

In addition, Prof. Sani also mentioned that assessors gather information not included in the documents due to their limited pages."We dig deeper because there may be many things that are not yet included in the documents that have been submitted," said Prof. Sani.

Furthermore, Dr. Nimmi Zukbainarni, S.Pi, M.Si., stated that the assessors do not make the decision resulting from this assessment. She said that assessors can only assist the program with their utmost capabilities to ensure it is worthy of evaluation according to the existing criteria.

"The decision regarding whether it will excel or not is not in our hands, but we will assist to the best of our abilities, ladies and gentlemen," said Dr. Nimmi. 

News
SDGs
SDGs 8
SDGs 9
Management
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara