MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Career Days 2024 Job Fair Increases Job Opportunities For Alumni And The Public
USU Career Days 2024 Job Fair Increases Job Opportunities for Alumni and the Public
Published At
24 October 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
USU Career Days 2024 Job Fair Increases Job Opportunities for Alumni and the Public
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Thursday, 24 October 2024

“This year, we held a job fair with the aim of providing opportunities for our graduates. Job fairs like this are expected to be held at least four times a year,” said Ami.

USU PR - The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) will again hold USU Career Days on October 15-16, 2024 at the USU Student Center. This event is open to the public and presents various companies that are ready to recruit workers, including through direct interview sessions and company presentations.

Ami Dilham, S.E., M.Si, as Manager of USU's Entrepreneurship and Career Development Center (CDC), explained that this year's Career Days event focused on a job fair to help USU graduates and the general public find jobs.

“This year, we are holding a job fair with the aim of providing opportunities for our graduates. Job fairs like this are expected to be held at least four times a year,” said Ami.

The two-day event was designed to give pre-registered applicants the opportunity to meet directly with the company and continue the recruitment process. Ami Dilham, S.E., M.Si, added that if applicants meet the qualifications, they will conduct interviews on the spot.

“Some companies have already promoted themselves in various media, and if they meet the qualifications, they will directly conduct on-site interviews,” she added.

Ami Dilham, S.E., M.Si, emphasized that thorough preparation is very important for the participants, especially fresh graduates, in facing the increasingly competitive world of work. She said that students and alumni need to prepare themselves, both in terms of hard skills and soft skills, given the tight job competition today.

“Students and alumni must prepare themselves because currently the job competition is very tight,” he explained.

Azzahra Zweida Harahap, a representative from Jobstreet, one of the tenants participating in USU Career Days, expressed her enthusiasm for the event. She explained that Jobstreet is here to provide access to job seekers, especially USU students and alumni, in order to find jobs that match their skills.

“Jobstreet is here to provide access to job seekers, especially USU students and alumni, to find jobs that match their expertise. The enthusiasm of the participants was great, and we are happy to be part of this event,” he said.

With a variety of companies in attendance, USU Career Days 2024 is a golden opportunity for job seekers to kickstart their careers. This event is also an important means for USU alumni and the people of Medan to connect with various job opportunities that exist.

News
SDGs 4
SDGs
SDGs 1
SDGs 8
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara