MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Optimizing The Laboratory At USU, Rector: We Improve The Facilities And Infrastructure
Optimizing the Laboratory at USU, Rector: We Improve the Facilities and Infrastructure
Published At
07 October 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Optimizing the Laboratory at USU, Rector: We Improve the Facilities and Infrastructure
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 07 October 2021

"Please tabulate the tools. We add tools that are used most often. We procure the tools that we haven’t have, including whether there is a need for additional laboratory staff, how to use the SOP for the tools, we need to formulate them together," he said.

USU PUBLIC RELATIONS - The Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara(USU) Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., is tryinng to optimize the use of existing laboratories to support the development of research and research by lecturers and students.

"Through optimization, of course, we will improve the facilities and infrastructure. So far, the existing laboratories are not integrated, so they are not optimal,” Mury said during afternoon coffee with research lecturers and community servants at Inter Coffee, Monday (10/4).

The Rector, who was accompanied by Vice Rector III Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Z Hasibuan, explained that input was needed so that the laboratory arrangement could run optimally. Lecturers and students are also asked to play an active role in collaborating to maximize the existence of laboratories, especially within the framework of the Tri Dharma of Higher Education.

"Please tabulate the tools. We add tools that are used most often. We procure the tools that we haven’t have, including whether there is a need for additional laboratory staff, how to use the SOP for the tools, we need to formulate them together," he said.

The Rector said that the role of the laboratory is very important to boost research and research at USU. Every year, during his leadership period, the laboratory will continue to be developed as needed.

He also ordered that a standard operating procedure (SOP) module for the use of the lab be made.

"So what is important is that we complete the facilities and infrastructure. We have the tools, we fix the room, make the module and who is the person who maintains and operates it. If we don't improve the lab, how can we innovate," he said.

Lecturer of the Faculty of Engineering, Ir. Arman Sani, MT supports the USU Rector's program to fix laboratory facilities and infrastructure. "I really appreciate if there is a policy focus to improve the existing laboratory," he said.

Arman explained that the problem of laboratory facilities and infrastructure at this time is not optimal because the facilities and infrastructure are inadequate. Including the tool can not be used by all students due to limited numbers.

"Of course we will support this effort so that more research, research and innovations from USU can be produced," he said.

Also attending the afternoon coffee discussion with the Rector were Romi Fadillah Rahmat B. Comp. Sc, MSc, Dr. Irwana Nainggolan, MSc, Dr. Hariadi Susilo, M.Si., and others. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - PR

News
Management
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara