MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Rector: Karo Culture Holds Creative Economic Potential
USU Rector: Karo Culture Holds Creative Economic Potential
Published At
19 December 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Rector: Karo Culture Holds Creative Economic Potential
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 19 December 2023

As a community that preserves cultural values, we have a responsibility to explore and optimize the creative economic potential of Karo culture," said the USU Rector

USU PR- Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), in collaboration with the Peradah Study and Research Institute (LKPP) and the Karo Student Association, held a cultural discussion on the "Creative Economic Potential of Karo Culture." The discussion occurred at the USU Rectorate Building on Saturday (12/09/2023).

During this cultural discussion, Dr. Ir. Arif Budimanta Sebayang, M.Sc., who serves as the Special Staff to the President of the Republic of Indonesia in the field of Economics, presented the topic of the Creative Economic Potential of Karo Culture. The presentation also included discussions by Prof. Dr. Rudy Sofyan Ginting, S.S., M.Hum, on the Karo Tribe, and Anton Sitepu, S.Sn., M.Sn., discussed Performing Arts.

USU Rector, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., emphasized that the creative economy not only refers to the arts and culture industry but also encompasses innovation, creativity, and expressions of identity that can catalyze local economic development.

"As a community that preserves cultural values, we have a responsibility to explore and optimize the creative economic potential of Karo culture," said the USU Rector.

The USU Rector added that the Ethnomusicology Study Program has already organized diverse ethnic concerts in North Sumatra. Similar performances will be held as part of cultural preservation efforts, particularly related to the Karo ethnic group.

"We guide these students to continue to have skills and expertise in the arts, whether it's dance, music, or theater. Then, we focus on creating events for them," he added.

Dr. Suresh Kumar, S.Ag., M.Si., Chairman of LKKP, stated that the culture in Karo must be preserved to prevent it from being eroded by time. Cultural potential exists not only in the arts but also in other forms that can enhance the welfare of the Karo community.

"The manifestation of Karo culture has economic value, so Karo culture is not only seen as art and culture. It can also support the community's welfare," said Dr. Suresh.

The Chairman of LKPP continued that supporting the Karo region's creative economy requires local government assistance, particularly in the Karo region. In addition to government support, those involved in the creative economy must also synergize with each other.

"This includes the government and private institutions; they must support each other for faster progress," he added.

As the presenter, Anton Sitepu, S.Sn., M.Sn. emphasized, one way to preserve Karo culture is by organizing artistic performances to attract the wider community's interest.

"There is an economic impact; for example, the cultural creations are turned into festival performances. This can attract the interest of many people," he said.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Education
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara