MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Admission
PMM
Independent Student Program

About PMM

Independent Student Selection USU (SMM USU) is a new student selection conducted independently by USU. This selection uses a computer-based examination as a valid and reliable measurement tool in selecting and determining the academic abilities of prospective students. The SMM programs generally are in the form of written exams/tests on SAINTEK and SOSHUM exam materials. USU has greater autonomy in determining the criteria for passing the selection of prospective students in which the criteria for passing the selection are adjusted to the characteristics of the study program. The Independent Student Selection (SMM) is intended to fulfill the capacity of study programs that have yet to be fulfilled through the SNMPTN and SBMPTN pathways, especially some study programs that fewer are interested in.

Undergraduate SMM

The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Undergraduate (S-1) Independent Student Selection (SMM) is a selection held independently by USU. This selection is held to support the new student admissions quota after the SNBT and SNBP pathway, and is intended for fresh high school graduates so they can study at USU in undergraduate programs.

SMMPTN-Barat Program

SMMPTN Barat (West PTN SMM) is an independent selection pathway to enter state higher education institutions (PTN) in the western region of Indonesia. Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) and 24 other PTNs in the West Indonesia Region together organize SMMPTN Barat with the aim of enabling prospective students to follow an independent selection for new students with the opportunity to choose from 25 organizing universities and become their students, especially at Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU). The main requirements for prospective participants are: physically and spiritually healthy as well as high school (or equivalent) graduates with a valid and legalized graduation certificate. Further information can be found on the official website of SMMPTN Barat,

SMI (International Independent Selection)

The International Independent Selection of Universitas Sumatera Utara (SMI USU) is an International Class Selection Pathway for prospective students of USU’s undergraduate programs (S-1) who are not Indonesian citizens (WNI). The SMI USU International Class Pathway for the 2024/2025 academic year is held to improve the quality of new student contributions and promote Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) as a "World Class University”.

SMI participants must meet the following main requirements:

Graduated from senior high school (SMA, MA, SMK, overseas SMA, equivalence exam, etc.) in the current year and/or in the last 3 (three) years.
Graduated from Package C in the current year or the last 3 (three) years with a three-year report card (as long as the person is participating in the program).

Written information and guidelines on International Independent Selection (SMI) Program can be accessed on penerimaan.usu.ac.id.

USU TALENTA Excellent Achievement-Based Selection (SBPU TALENTA) Program

The USU TALENTA Excellent Achievement-Based Selection (SBPU TALENTA) is a program that filters prospective students of Universitas Sumatera Utara who have talents/achievements in the academic and non-academic fields or have special talents recognized at the national or international level. It is conducted to look for prospective students with good character and achievements in their area of interest and talent they master. Hopefully, it can improve the quality of successor students at Universitas Sumatera Utara and provide more excellent opportunities and benefits to students who are motivated to hone their abilities to study at Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU). Based on the Regulation of the Rector of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) on New Student Admissions through the USU TALENTA Excellent Achievement-Based Selection Pathway, it was explained that new student admissions through the USU TALENTA Excellent Achievement-Based Selection (SBPU TALENTA) is a new student admission pathway of USU whose results are ratified through a Decree of the Rector and organized by university-level committee. For those of you who want to submit proof of achievement, for that, an original certificate is needed from the institution organizing the competition. Some achievements that meet the selection requirements are Hifzhil Qur'an, Musabaqah Tilawatil Quran (MTQ), Pesta Paduan Suara Gerejawi (Pesparawi), competitions in science and humanities, etc. The purpose of implementing SBPU TALENTA USU is to provide opportunities for outstanding students to develop at Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), improve the quality of new USU students, appreciate outstanding students in academic and non-academic fields, and provide motivation to students to maintain their achievements.

The capacity of the USU TALENTA Excellent Achievement-Based Selection (SBPU TALENTA) is a maximum of 0.5% of the new student admissions quota. The selection is conducted only once a year, and prospective participants can only choose a maximum of two vocational and/or undergraduate study programs at USU. Announcement of the approval will be announced via the www.usu.ac.id website. Those who pass will be considered for single tuition fee (UKT) relief. After passing the selection, prospective students must re-register for administration according to the correct schedule and procedure and are not allowed to change their study program. If they do not re-register, the participant will be disqualified. Finally, participants will take medical tests and collect other documents, such as drug-free and crime-free certificates.

PMM Schedules 2025
UTBK SMMPTN-Barat 2025 will be held on June 17 to June 24, 2025. Especially on Friday, the afternoon session is adjusted to the Friday prayer time at the location of each PTN.
The Independent Selection (SMM) will be conducted in two phases: Phase 1 on June 9-12, 2025 and Phase 2 on July 13-15, 2025.
The International Student Selection (SMI) will be held on June 14, 2025.

SMM Phase 1

Online Registration	01 May - 07 June 2025
Exam Implementation	09 - 12 June 2025
Result Announcement	20 June 2025

SMM Phase 2

Online Registration	21 June - 10 July 2025
Exam Implementation	13 - 15 July 2025
Result Announcement	22 July 2025
More Information
Visit the SMI Admission Page
Visit SBPU USU Admission Page
Visit the SMM USU Admission Page
Visit the SMMPTN Barat USU Admission Page
Visit the USU Independent Student Selection Registration Page
Diploma Education Programs Offered
Undergraduate Education Programs Offered
Applied Undergraduate Education Programs Offered
Tuition Fee

USU Contacts

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara

Email

info@usu.ac.id

Telephone

(+62) 821-6888-9060

Call Center

(+62) 821-6888-9060

Help Desk

(+62) 821-6888-9060

Official Page

https://www.usu.ac.id

Central Contacts

Gedung D Lantai 2, Kemdikbudristek, Jalan Pintu I Senayan, Jakarta 10270

Email

snpmb@bppp.kemdikbud.go.id

Telephone

(+62) 21 310-4041

Call Center

(+62) 804-1450-450

Help Desk

https://halo-snpmb.bppp.kemdikbud.go.id

Official Page

https://snpmb.bppp.kemdikbud.go.id
Show Less

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara