MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Rector Leads 2023 Harkitnas Ceremony
USU Rector Leads 2023 Harkitnas Ceremony
Published At
22 May 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Rector Leads 2023 Harkitnas Ceremony
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 22 May 2023

“In accordance with the theme, Semangat Untuk Bangkit, the spirit of USU students must not go down, then try to give birth to new innovations to overcome the problems around them,” said USU Rector, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si.

USU PR - The Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., led the morning roll call ceremony in commemoration of the 115th National Awakening Day with the theme “Spirit to Rise” and was attended by all staff members of the academic community in the courtyard of the USU Central Administration Bureau Building, Monday (22/05/2023).

In line with the theme of national awakening, the rector read a mandate from the Ministry of Communication and Information Technology, which states the 3 main objectives of national awakening, namely liberating the ideals of humanity, advancing the nation and the nation, and realizing the life of a nation that is honorable and dignified in the eyes of the world. The ranks of the struggle must be kept close by stirring up the spirit to rise in order to realize the Golden Indonesia 2045.

“In accordance with the theme, Semangat Untuk Bangkit, the spirit of USU students must not go down, then try to give birth to new innovations to overcome the problems around them,” said USU Rector, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., in his interview.

The Rector also mentioned that in interpreting this National Awakening Day, it is important to collaborate between ministries, institutions, the private sector, universities, academics and all elements of the Indonesian nation in order to implement the values of unity in realizing the nation's awakening from various global crises.

Prof. Muryanto emphasized the importance of making efforts to improve the economic sector for the welfare of the Indonesian people.

Furthermore, the USU Rector said that National Awakening Day can also be interpreted by being grateful for all steps of progress, improvements and even lessons learned from joint struggles.

“The improvement of USU's performance has been announced every quarter, such as national rankings, superior accreditation, and the growing number of innovations, and we will continue to intensify this so that it can continue to be improved in accordance with the fighting spirit of this National Awakening Day,” added the rector.

Finally, the rector hopes that all components of the nation will continue to apply the embers of the spirit of national awakening by showing hard work, smart work, and cooperation for the independence and sustainable progress of the nation and is expected to be a guiding light for the nation's future successors.

 

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Public Relations

Interviewee: Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos, M.Si - USU Rector

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Public Relations 

News
Campus Life
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara