MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Office Of International Affairs Holds Monitoring And Evaluation Meeting For Summer Course 2024 Grant
USU Office of International Affairs Holds Monitoring and Evaluation Meeting for Summer Course 2024 Grant
Published At
26 November 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
USU Office of International Affairs Holds Monitoring and Evaluation Meeting for Summer Course 2024 Grant
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Tuesday, 26 November 2024

“On this occasion, we will evaluate the implementation of the summer course that has taken place, and discuss strategies to improve the quality and quantity of the program in the coming year, especially in an effort to increase the number of international participants and guest lecturers,” explained Prof Poppy.

USU PR - In order to support internationalization and increase the number of summer course participants and guest lecturers, the Office of International Affairs of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (KUI USU) held the opening of the monitoring and evaluation meeting for the implementation of the 2024 summer course grant. This activity was carried out online through the Zoom platform on Thursday (11/21/2024).

Vice Rector III of USU, Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan, S.Si., M.Si., Apt. in her remarks, expressed her appreciation for the participation of all parties present. She stated that this activity aims to evaluate the implementation of the summer course in the previous year, as well as to develop strategies to improve the quality and quantity of the program in the coming year. In 2024, there were 19 summer course programs that had been successfully implemented.

Furthermore, Prof. Poppy explained that USU will develop a Summer Course Grant Program as part of its internationalization efforts. This program provides funding support of up to Rp100 million per activity in accordance with the Rector's Decree on the determination of summer course grant winners. Each study program can submit a proposal, which will then be reviewed by an assessment team to determine the winner.

Summer Course Grant funding is divided into two types of funding, namely BOPTN Funds (EQUITY Program, which is a program under the Directorate General of Higher Education, Research and Technology, which aims to improve the quality of Indonesian higher education to compete at the world level. The EQUITY Program is also designed to support USU's international ranking strategy and Non-PNBP Funds sourced from the USU Directorate of Internationalization and Global Partnerships. In this activity, Prof. Poppy hopes that various shortcomings in the implementation of the previous summer course can be discussed and the guidelines and rules for its implementation can be strengthened.

“On this occasion, we will evaluate the implementation of the summer course that has taken place and discuss strategies to improve the quality and quantity of the program in the coming year, especially in an effort to increase the number of international participants and guest lecturers,” explained Prof. Poppy.

On the same occasion, the Director of the Directorate of Internationalization and Global Partnerships, Prof. Dr. Eng. Himsar Ambarita, S.T., M.T., explained that the summer course program has been implemented consistently at USU since before the change of leadership of the rector. The number of participants continues to increase, reaching around 780 people in 2023. In the future, USU plans to make this program paid so that it can generate income for the university, although various forms of support, such as visa-making, will still be facilitated by USU.

“Since the first summer course was held, the number of participants has continued to increase until it reaches around 780 people in 2023. In the future, we plan to pay for this program so that it can generate revenue for the university,” said Prof. Himsar.

Meanwhile, the Head of KUI, Prof. Dr. Rudy Sofyan, S.S., M.Hum., emphasized the importance of cooperation from all parties so that the audit process runs smoothly, considering that USU as a PTN-BH has strict financial reporting standards. The financial report must be in accordance with predetermined guidelines and will be audited by the internal team, the funding inspectorate, and the Supreme Audit Agency (BPK). In addition, Prof. Rudy highlighted the importance of credit transfer in the summer course program, which is still recognized as equivalent to 1-2 credits. He hopes that credit transfer management can be improved through cooperation with the participant's home university so that the USU summer course program will be of higher quality and added value.

“Because USU is a PTN-BH, the financial statements must be in accordance with established guidelines. I hope all parties can work together so that the audit process runs smoothly and meets the specified standards,” said Prof. Rudy.

At the end of the event, the meeting participants will get direction from their respective supervisors to support the success of the summer course program in the coming year. Hopefully, this meeting will be an encouragement to continue to increase USU's potential in supporting the internationalization of education and making a real contribution to the progress of the nation.

News
SDGs 4
SDGs
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara