MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
23rd Anniversary Of Faculty Of Forestry, USU Rector Hopes Forest Productivity Meets Sustainable Development
23rd Anniversary of Faculty of Forestry, USU Rector Hopes Forest Productivity Meets Sustainable Development
Published At
30 November 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
23rd Anniversary of Faculty of Forestry, USU Rector Hopes Forest Productivity Meets Sustainable Development
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 30 November 2021

"The Faculty of Forestry must support the increase in forest productivity that meets sustainable development, and contribute to the efforts to use forest resources wisely for the welfare of the people and the integrity of the forest in the future," said the Rector.

USU PR - The Faculty of Forestry (Faculty of Forestry) of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) has provided a very important lesson about the experience of shaping character and competence to produce a strong and reliable Bachelor of Forestry. This was conveyed by the Rector of USU, Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., in the Webinar of the 23rd Anniversary of the Forestry Study Program and the 7th Faculty of Forestry, Wednesday (11/17/2021).

"The Faculty of Forestry must support the increase in forest productivity that meets sustainable development, contribute to efforts to use forest resources wisely for the welfare of the people and the integrity of the forest in the future," said the Rector.

The Rector said, at the age of 23, the Forestry Study Program has produced graduates as strong foresters and work professionally to ensure the existence of forest areas as the pulse of life on earth.

He added, there were many challenges to carry out that role, especially during the 4.0 revolution. Now the forest has been threatened because it is continuously exploited to meet the needs of human life.

"This era changes the way we adapt our competencies into an innovation, not everyone cares about forest areas that have decreased functions and benefits, so the responsibilities of foresters, lecturers and forest area observers will become even more difficult in the following days," he explained. Muryanto.

Muryanto emphasized that Faculty of Forestry should take a strategic role to protect the environment and forest ecosystems as a mega biodiversity country in the world and contribute to protecting forests and ensuring their continuity as the lungs of the world.

“Because we are blessed with quite diverse biodiversity, it has important potential to be used as basic capital in sustainable development. We hope that Faculty of Forestry can be more active in designing educational programs and forest conservation that are packaged in an attractive way,” he said.

Not only that, Muryanto also emphasized the Faculty of Forestry to collaborate with other disciplines to answer the problems needed by the industry. Changes in forest and area management processes have used artificial intelligence and the internet of things.

“In addition, the potential of alumni can be strengthened by their network to arrange programs systematically, for example through the back to home alumni program. Invite alumni who are experienced in the industrial world to provide mutual benefits between the alma mater and alumni,” he continued.

Muryanto also hopes that Faculty of Forestry can move and be agile to achieve Key Performance Indicators. “The university leadership supports all of Faculty of Forestry's efforts to get the best achievements in various national and international forums. Lecturers and students who succeed in achieving achievements will be given rewards," he said.

He also thanked the students who had given their best achievements in national and international competitions.

On this occasion, the Dean of the USU Faculty of Forestry, Dr. Ir. Rudi Hartono, S.Hut., M.Sc., IPM explained some of the achievements of USU's Faculty of Forestry for 2020-2021. In the field of facilities and infrastructure, Faculty of Forestry has repaired the Forest Inventory Laboratory, repaired the Academic Service Room, and procured Meubleair.

“In December 2021, Faculty of Forestry will also open the Kwala Bekala campus. Many improvements will be supported by the Rector for the development of the Kwala Bekala campus," he explained.

Not only that, he also said that Faculty of Forestry had deconstructed the curriculum of the Forestry Undergraduate Study Program by designing 20 credits outside the Study Program and designing 40 credits outside of Higher Education. "Currently, 155 Faculty of Forestry students are participating in MBKM in the form of street vendors," he said.

Rudi hopes that the target line of the Forestry Study Program, namely Honest, Superior, Religious, Respectful and Fair can be achieved. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Humas - Humas

News
Dies Natalis
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara