MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Mathematics And Natural Sciences
Undergraduate Program In Physics
Undergraduate Program
Physics
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Opened in 1983, the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Undergraduate Program in Physics is a provider of superior higher education in the field of physics, including pure physics, materials, and instrumentation.

With the best facilities and infrastructure available and supported by experienced and qualified lecturers, our study program is committed to producing graduates who have high competitiveness. They are expected to be able to create the latest products or technologies that can compete at the national and international levels. Graduates of the Undergraduate Program in Physics have a variety of career opportunities, including as researchers, instrumentation technicians, and material engineers.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

fisika@usu.ac.id

Undergraduate Program in Physics

Accredited Baik Sekali

091/SK/LAMSAMA/Akred/S/IX/2023

Vision of Undergraduate Program in Physics

To become a superior study program in organizing the tridharma of higher education in the field of physics and its applications nationally and able to compete in the global world order in 2030.

Mission of Undergraduate Program in Physics

National and International Quality

Organizing quality higher education in the field of physics and its applications so as to produce graduates who are able to compete nationally and be recognized internationally.

Research

Develop basic and applied research in the field of physics by utilizing local potential to obtain highly competitive products/technology with national and international standards.

Science & Technology

Implementing science and technology (IPTEK) in the field of physics and its application through community service activities so as to improve the welfare of the community.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Material Physics

Instrumentation Physics

Theoretical Physics

Contact Us
Undergraduate Program in Physics
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Bioteknologi No. 1, Padang Bulan, Medan Baru, Kota Medan - 20155

fisika@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara