MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Nursing
Master's Program In Nursing
Master Program
Master's Program in Nursing
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Master's Program in Nursing is a postgraduate education program intended for nursing graduates who have obtained their Bachelor of Nursing degree.

Established in 2011, the Master's Program in Nursing has graduated nurses who have practiced nursing in various health facilities in many parts of Indonesia. Based on holistic care, prospective nurses are provided with a quality learning curriculum that can increase their professional capacity to compete competitively and professionally in the world of work.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

fkep@usu.ac.id

Master's Program in Nursing

Accredited Excellent

0972/LAM-PTKes/Akr/Mag/XI/2022

Vision of Master's Program in Nursing

As a center for master of nursing education that produces graduates including nursing researchers, scientists, educators, leaders, and decision-makers with competitive abilities in developing nursing science and technology based on holistic caring to gain international recognition in 2024.

Mission of Master's Program in Nursing

Academic Atmosphere

Create a conducive academic atmosphere for master of nursing students in teaching and learning, conducting research and community service, and providing quality services in hospitals and communities.

Graduates

Produce master of nursing graduates who can develop nursing science and technology through innovative research based on holistic caring.

Research

Develop research based on holistic caring and partnerships that accommodate the formation of professional nursing practitioners who can meet the community's health needs.

Community Service

Develop community service as an application of the results of nursing research based on holistic caring to improve public health.

Agent of Change

Produce agents of change in their work environment through an inter- or multidisciplinary approach.

National and International Recignition

Manage research on nursing science and technology development that benefits the community and gets national and international recognition.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Nursing Administration

Medical-Surgical Nursing

Community Nursing

Psychiatric Nursing

Contact Us
Master's Program in Nursing
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Prof. T. Maas No. 3, Kampus, Padang Bulan, Kec. Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20155

(061) - 8213318

fkep@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara