MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Cultural Science
Undergraduate Program In Library And Information Science
Undergraduate Program
Library and Information Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Undergraduate Library and Information Science Study Program at the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) was established in 2001. Since its establishment, the program has produced many outstanding students and created influential library experts throughout Indonesia. This study program's main focus is interdisciplinary, combining various sciences such as social sciences, legal sciences, and applied sciences to study topics related to library and information science. Supported by lecturers who are experts and certified in the library field and the use of an integrated curriculum, we are committed to providing an interactive education and learning experience to our students.

Our main goal is to produce the best individuals in the library science and information science field who are competent and ready to compete on a national and international scale. Graduates of our study program have a wide range of career opportunities, from becoming a librarian or archivist to a researcher contributing to the development of science and information technology.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

perpustakaan.sainsinformasi@usu.ac.id

Undergraduate Program in Library and Information Science

Accredited Excellent

No. 859/SK/BAN-PT/Ak-PNB/S/III/2023

Vision of Undergraduate Program in Library and Information Science

The Undergraduate Program in Library and Information Science will produce excellent, leading, and internationally recognized education, research, and community service in the field of library and information science by 2024.

Mission of Undergraduate Program in Library and Information Science

Excellent Competence

To implement and manage education in the study program in a planned, integrated, and dynamic manner, with an orientation on enhancing the quality of graduates with excellent competencies in the field of library and information science and competitiveness at the local, national, and international levels.

Research

To conduct research in the field of library and information science based on information technology and communication and publish widely to society in accredited national and international journals.

Community Service

To conduct community service in a planned, measurable, and dynamic manner, with an orientation on the quantity and quality of library and information science development within society.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Information Science

Contact Us
Undergraduate Program in Library and Information Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Universitas No.19, Padang Bulan, Kec. Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20155

(061) - 8215596

perpustakaan.sainsinformasi@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara