MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Rector Prof. Muryanto Amin Officially Opens BNI Sub-Branch Office On USU Campus
Rector Prof. Muryanto Amin Officially Opens BNI Sub-Branch Office on USU Campus
Published At
26 November 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
Rector Prof. Muryanto Amin Officially Opens BNI Sub-Branch Office on USU Campus
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Tuesday, 26 November 2024

“The presence of this new office is expected to provide comfort for all BNI customers,” said Prof. Muryanto.

Public Relations USU - The Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si, officially opened the Rector Bureau of Bank Negara Indonesia (BNI) Sub-Branch Office (KCP) USU Rector Bureau Medan. The inauguration occurred on the 1st floor of the USU Digital Learning Center Building (DLCB), on Tuesday (26/11/2024).  

In his remarks, the USU Rector expressed his gratitude and happiness for the completion of the relocation of BNI KCP USU Rector Bureau to this new building. Previously, the BNI office was located in a small building on the right wing of the USU Rector Bureau Building. Now, the office occupies a new location on the first floor of the DLCB Building, designed to be more spacious, comfortable, and aesthetically pleasing.  

He said the presence of this new office is expected to provide comfort for BNI leaders and staff and increase the satisfaction of lecturers, education staff, and students as BNI customers. “The presence of this new office is expected to provide comfort for all BNI customers,” said Prof. Muryanto.

The Rector also appreciated the support and cooperation from BNI, which is consistent in supporting the education sector, especially in providing banking facilities that are more easily accessible to the USU academic community.  Prof. Muryanto also revealed that BNI's presence on campus is very important considering the increasing banking needs, ranging from opening savings accounts and financial management to academic transactions such as tuition fee payments, so that through this facility, all these needs can be met more quickly and safely.

The Rector also added that collaboration between universities and the banking sector is a strategic step to strengthen the campus economic system while supporting the development of joint research and innovation.  

“BNI's presence on campus is very important considering that banking needs are increasing, from opening savings accounts and financial management to academic transactions such as tuition payments. With this facility, all these needs can be met more quickly and safely,” he added.

On the same occasion, Director of Institutional Banking BNI, Munadi Herlambang, explained that the inauguration of this office was part of a long-term plan that had previously undergone several reschedules.

The concept of this new office is designed in line with the modern theme of the campus, complete with sophisticated facilities such as Customer Relationship Management (CRM) and Customer Service Line services that suit the needs of the academic community at USU.  

“The concept of this new office is designed in line with the modern theme of the campus, complete with advanced facilities such as Customer Relationship Management (CRM) and Customer Service Line services that suit the needs of the academic community,” said Munadi.

On that occasion, Munadi Herlambang, Director of Institutional Banking BNI, gave a public lecture entitled Building a Sustainable Student Financial Future to USU students.

Meanwhile, Siti Mazdalani Siregar, Sub-Branch Manager of KCP BNI Rector Bureau, added that BNI and USU have been collaborating for a long time. One form of collaboration is implementing the USU student card, which has ATM and tap cash features and services like Internet banking supporting campus operations.  

“USU students can also make a single tuition payment through the virtual account feature available in the BNI mobile banking application,” explained Siti.

With this new office, BNI hopes to continue serving the banking needs of the USU academic community, supporting campus operations, and making a real contribution to the advancement of education in Indonesia.

News
SDGs 11
SDGs
SDGs 9
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara