MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Projects Itself To Become A "Commercial University"
USU Projects Itself to Become a "Commercial University"
Published At
02 August 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Projects Itself to Become a "Commercial University"
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 02 August 2021

USU PUBLIC RELATION-MEDAN: The status of a Legal Entity State University (PTNBH), allows the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) to manage its own revenue and expenditure budget. In its implementation requires good management in order to realize a balance of needs and income.

This was conveyed by the Rector of USU, Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., when giving a presentation before the leadership of the USU Teaching Hospital and the USU Dental and Oral Hospital (RSGM), Friday (7/2/2021) in the Academic Senate Meeting Room of USU Central Administration Bureau.

“So far, we are in the champion university category, where we always talk about achieving rankings, achieving accreditation, winning competitions.Slowly, we have to shift this into a new category, namely commercial universities," said the USU Rector.

He explained that the category of commercial university forms an independent personality from higher education.Universities seek to gain profits by utilizingtheir potential and assets.

He quoted the direction of the Minister of Culture, Education, Research, and Technology, Nadiem Makarim, who stated that the government was trying to reduce state involvement in the management of universities.The government from year to year proves by reducing the budget for universities.

“Universities are required to be able to generate their own income, and manage it.On the other hand, the government has begun to reduce the financial support provided so that these universities can become independent.This was conveyed directly by Minister Nadiem, when Imet himseveraltimes,” he said.

The Rector of USU emphasized that higher education can be obtained from several aspects, from asset management to academic services.In addition, universities can also establish business units to encourage their income.

“Universities can get income through managing their assets, or also from the academic service process, as well as business units.In this case, even though the USU Hospital and RSGM are forms of academic services to students, these two institutions are projected to be able to provideincomeinputfor USU," he added.

He gave an example of several universities on the island of Java that have succeeded in proving themselves by managing their assets and business units, so that they are able to earn large incomes.In addition, the university manages the income to grow other business units.

“Several universities such as UI or UGM have shown their success in managing assets and business units.From that management, they can have a manageable budget of up totrillions of rupiah,” he added.

The President Director of USU Hospital, Dr. dr. Henry Salim Siregar Sp.OG (K)-FER, said that his party was trying to revitalize the USU hospital.He said, USU Hospital needed a lot of repairsand quality improvements.

"After being inaugurated for five months, we are working to fulfill the direction of the USU Rector.There are three directions, namely to make USU Hospital become independent, to develop USU Hospital, and to become a leading USU Hospital in North Sumatra.We areworking hard on all of these things at this time,” he said.

The meeting was attended by the USU Vice Rectors, the Rector's Expert Staff, the Leaders and Supervisory Board of the USU Teaching Hospital and their ranks, the USU Dental and Oral Hospital leaders and their ranks, as well as educational staff.(RR/©ULC)

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Muhammad Andriansyah - PR

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara