MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Celebrating 1st Anniversary, FV USU Holds Alumni Gathering
Celebrating 1st Anniversary, FV USU Holds Alumni Gathering
Published At
27 September 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Celebrating 1st Anniversary, FV USU Holds Alumni Gathering
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 27 September 2023

With the role, network, and strength of the alumni, USU is optimistic that it can conquer all challenges, and achieve internationalization," Arifin said.

USU PR - Vocational Faculty of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held an Alumni Gathering entitled 'Building Collaborative Strategies with Alumni and Industry Partners'. It took place at Santika Premiere Dyandra Hotel, on Saturday (16/09/2023).

This event was the third in a series of activities held to enliven the celebration of the 1st Anniversary of the Faculty of Vocational (FV) Studies of USU. By bringing in two speakers, namely the Director of PT Sinergi Gula Nusantara, Commissioner of PT Pamela Nusantara Hospital, Dr. Suhendri, SE, MM; and Branch Manager of PT Bank Mandiri Medan, Isabella Ginting, SE, Ak.

Vice Rector II for Human Resources and Finance of USU, Muhammad Arifin Nasution, S.Sos., M.SP., in his remarks representing USU Rector Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin S.Sos., M.Si said that this moment is a forum to get new ideas, as well as build stronger collaboration with alumni, government and industry partners.

"To increase the absorption rate of graduates of vocational education programs in the industrial world and the global job market, collaboration is very important and strategic," Arifin explained.

VR II stated that the role of alumni is very important as one of the main forces that support USU in competing in the global world. It also has a positive impact on achieving achievements that can develop the university's reputation at the international level.

"With the role, network, and strength possessed by the alumni, USU is optimistic that it can conquer all challenges, and achieve internationalization," said Arifin.

Not only that, Muhammad Arifin Nasution, S.Sos., M.SP., also highlighted the crucial role of industry partners as contributors of experience, which is also key in improving the curriculum. So that university graduates are by the needs of a dynamic labor market.

"Collaboration with industry partners is an important foundation in preparing competitive students. It also opens up job, internship, and research opportunities for students," Arifin explained.

Prof. Dr. Isfenti Sadalia, S.E. ME, as Dean of the Faculty of Vocational Studies emphasized the importance of work readiness for graduates of the faculty of vocational studies and collaboration with industry partners. With industry partners involved as practitioner teachers, and university lecturers in an industrial environment through internships to maintain curriculum relevance to industrial developments.

"So far, we have a gap between the industry and the university. So, because of this gap, we have to partner with industry," said Dr. Isfenti.

Finally, the Dean of the Faculty of Vocational Studies explained the teaching factory program which makes practical experience an integral part of learning by involving industry in the campus. Supported by the Faculty of Vocational Studies Lab with a workshop concept, students are involved in the process of producing products or services that benefit the community.

"The projection is that we have a teaching factory program, which is a learning concept by bringing the industry to campus. Now, we already have a donation from BSI to support the vocational faculty," Isfenti explained.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Dies Natalis
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara