MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
University Activity
IKGA FKG USU Community Service To Alleviate Children's Dental Problems
IKGA FKG USU Community Service to Alleviate Children's Dental Problems
Published At
20 February 2024
Published By
David Kevin Handel Hutabarat
IKGA FKG USU Community Service to Alleviate Children's Dental Problems
 

Published by

David Kevin Handel Hutabarat

Published at

Tuesday, 20 February 2024

The Department of Pediatric Dentistry is the first department at USU's Faculty of Dentistry to carry out community service activities, targeting strategic government programs to reduce the level of tooth decay in children. This activity is also proof of the implementation of the collaboration between USU's Faculty of Dentistry and the North Sumatra Provincial Social Service, which is real, to achieve a common goal of improving the quality of oral health of children in Medan, North Sumatra.

Public Relations USU - The Department of Pediatric Dentistry, Faculty of Dentistry, USU, has proven its commitment to improving the dental health of children and toddlers by holding a community service program at the Regional Technical Implementation Unit (UPTD) for Children and Toddler Social Services in Medan, North Sumatra Provincial Social Service. From January 11-12, 2024, the event aimed to eradicate dental problems in toddlers in Medan City.

 

The Department of Pediatric Dentistry is the first department at USU's Faculty of Dentistry to carry out community service activities, targeting strategic government programs to reduce the level of tooth decay in children. This activity is also proof of the implementation of the collaboration between USU's Faculty of Dentistry and the North Sumatra Provincial Social Service, which is real, to achieve a common goal of improving the quality of oral health of children in Medan, North Sumatra. A team of pediatric dentists consisting of lecturers in the IKGA Department of USU's Faculty of Dentistry and competent medical personnel were present to provide free oral health services to toddlers in need, including preventive measures for administering fluoride and dental care in the form of fillings and extractions.

 

One of the main focuses of this activity is preventing dental disease at an early age. drg. Ami Angela Harahap, Sp.KGA.Subsp-AIBK(K), M.Sc, Head of the IKGA Department, FKG USU, explained, "It is important to provide a preventive approach from an early age because good dental health in childhood can form habits that continue into adulthood. We believe investing in children's dental health is an investment for a better future. By providing oral health care and education from an early age, we hope to reduce the prevalence of dental problems in children and toddlers in Medan City."

This activity began with counseling on January 11, 2024, which was attended by 35 parents of toddlers entrusted to the UPTD. The topic of counseling on how to maintain good oral health in children includes what dental and oral diseases are, how to maintain them, including oral hygiene (how to brush teeth, the right time to brush teeth, and choosing a toothbrush and toothpaste) and a good child's diet for dental health, as well as making regular visits to the dentist. The parents' enthusiasm was seen in following this counseling, marked by the many questions from the parents.

 

This community service received full support from the North Sumatra Provincial Social Service. The Head of the North Sumatra Provincial Social Service, Sri Suriani Purnawati, S.SI.Apt, M.Kes., was present on the occasion. She expressed her appreciation for this joint effort.

 

"Children's health is our main priority, and the collaboration between FKG USU and the North Sumatra Provincial Social Service is very helpful in achieving the goals and targets of the current government program. Moreover, many of the activities carried out are government programs, so we feel very helped," said the Head of the Social Service.

 

Through this activity, it is hoped that awareness of the importance of children's and toddlers' dental health will increase in the community. In addition, collaboration between the authorities, medical personnel, and the community is a strong foundation for continuing to fight for children's dental health in Medan City and its surroundings, reducing tooth decay in children. (RJ/Jef)

SDGs
SDGs 3
University Activity
Community Service Activity
SDGs Headline
Find More Activity
University Activity
USU Lecturer Concern on the Extinction of Orangutan Tapanuli
University Activity
USU professor turns shrimp shell waste into face serum
University Activity
USU Research Collaboration Lowers Stunting Rate in Sergai

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara