MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Comfortable Campus Environment, for Good Campus Life
250
+

Facilities, UKM, and Services

USU provides various activities, services, and facilities as a commitment to providing a good quality campus environment.

Padang Bulan Campus

Dr. T. Mansur Street No. 9, Padang Bulan, Medan Baru District, Medan City, North Sumatra 20222

Kwala Bekala Campus

Durin Tunggal, Pancur Batu District, Deli Serdang Regency, North Sumatra 20353

North Nias Campus

Omasio Street, Lawira Satua, Lotu District, North Nias Regency, 22856

Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is one of the best state universities (PTN) in Indonesia located in Medan, North Sumatra. Initially, USU was established in 1952 under the name Yayasan Universitet Sumatera Utara, USU has developed into a leading university that offers various quality study programs. President Soekarno inaugurated USU as the 7th state university in Indonesia in 1957. In 2003, USU was upgraded to a Legal Entity State University (PTN-BH) and became the 5th PTN-BH university in Indonesia. Various advantages, such as modern facilities and expert teaching staff, make it one of the best universities in Indonesia.

Find Out More about USU Campus
Student

Find useful information for students of Universitas Sumatera Utara here. Various beneficial information for students is available on this page to support students' achievements academically and non-academically.

Visit the Student Page
General Facilities
Health Facilities
Sport Facilities
Disability Facilities

Campus Facilities

Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) provides various facilities that can be used, especially by students and the academic community, to support learning activities and as a means to support various non-academic activities.

Find Out More about Facilities
40+
Student Activity Units

The USU campus offers various platforms for students to engage in activities and learn more outside the classroom. Through student activity units, Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) facilitates students’ hobbies and interests in various fields. Find more opportunities to meet new friends, share new experiences, develop soft skills, interests and skills, as well as build a broad network.

USU student activity units also provide opportunities for students to participate in various events and competitions while expanding their personal network. Participating in student activity units can help students showcase their potential and talents in their respective fields and prepare for future career paths.

See More Student Activity Units
Sports
Martial Arts
Spiritual
Organizational
Science and Technology
Debate and Languages
Music and Literature
Press and Journalism
Healthy Campus

The Universitas Sumatera Utara is fully committed to promoting a healthy campus, emphasizing our students to take care of their nutrition through food and exercise regularly to improve their lifestyle. For more information about the healthy campus promotion plan, please visit the following page.

Visit the Healthy Campus Page

Merdeka Belajar Kampus Merdeka

A comprehensive career preparation program to prepare the best generation of Indonesia. Kampus Merdeka is part of the Merdeka Belajar policy by the Ministry of Education, Culture, Research, and Technology (Kemendikbudristek) which provides all students with the opportunity to hone their abilities according to their talents and interests by directly entering the workforce as a career preparation step.

Kuliah Kerja Nyata Tematik
Wirausaha Merdeka
Pertukaran Mahasiswa Merdeka
Magang Bersertifikat
Kampus Mengajar
Studi Independen Bersertifikat
Praktisi Mengajar
IISMA
Find Out More about MBKM
Student Achievement

Find information about the achievements of students of Universitas Sumatera Utara here. Various information about student achievements is available on this page to provide useful information for students.

Visit the Student Achievement Page
1
2
3
4
5
6

Research

Research by the academic community of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), both internal and external, is a form of USU's contribution to real work in facing global issues that are the goals of global industry 4.0 development.

Find Out More about Research
1
2
3

Community Service

Through LPPM as the managing body, USU has offered the world to collaborate on community services carried out by foreign students and lecturers to work together in Indonesia

Find Out More about Community Service
City Tour of Medan

Medan, as one of the largest cities in Indonesia, offers a rich tourism experience with diverse culture and culinary. Find information about popular tourism in the city of Medan and its surroundings.

Find Out More about City Tour of Medan

Campus Visits

Campus visits are intended for prospective students of Universitas Sumatera Utara. You will have the opportunity to see firsthand the atmosphere of our campus, including the facilities, students, and campus life.

Start Visiting

Frequently Asked Questions

What facilities can be seen during the campus visit?
In the USU campus area, there are many public facilities that can be seen, including sports facilities and academic facilities.
Are there any guidelines or rules to be followed during the campus visit?
It is recommended to always ask the academic community and maintain proper behavior within the campus area.
Can I meet with lecturers or students at a specific faculty during the campus visit?
During the campus visit, you can meet with specific lecturers or students outside class hours.
What is the registration procedure for new students at Universitas Sumatera Utara?
Registration information can be accessed on https://penerimaan.usu.ac.id.

Access and Transportation

Students from outside Medan can take a flight to Kualanamu Airport and continue their journey to the USU campus by taxi or bus. Students can also take a train and continue their journey using public transportation.

Students can use buses to reach USU by going through the nearest bus terminal and getting off at Amplas Terminal. After that, students can continue their journey to the USU campus using public transportation, which takes approximately 30 minutes.

Students can reach the location of Universitas Sumatera Utara by taking a flight. After arriving at Kualanamu Airport, the journey can be continued by taking a taxi or bus, which takes approximately 60 minutes.

Students can use a ship and dock at Belawan Port. Then, the journey can be continued by public transportation or bus to the location of USU, which takes approximately 120 minutes.

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara