MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Pitching Competition 2023 Produces Young Entrepreneurs
USU Pitching Competition 2023 Produces Young Entrepreneurs
Published At
11 October 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Pitching Competition 2023 Produces Young Entrepreneurs
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 11 October 2023

What we aim to nurture is entrepreneurs, and their future impact is IKU 1, with the fourth-highest GPA," said the Director of Ditmawalumni.

USU PR- The Center for Student Achievements at the University of North Sumatra (Puspresma USU) conducted the follow-up event to the USU Pitching Competition 2023 at the Prof. Dr. Suhadji Hadibroto Hall on Friday (29/09/2023).

The USU Pitching Competition, held last Friday, is a series of activities for students who have a business to get funding assistance as their business capital. The students who participate in this competition in the business field must have had a business that has been established for approximately six months.

In his remarks, Doli Muhammad Jafar Dalimunthe, S.E., M.Si., said that the USU Pitching Competition is an opportunity for students and a place to give birth to young entrepreneurs.

"What we aim to nurture is entrepreneurs, and their future impact is IKU 1, with the fourth-highest GPA," said the Director of Ditmawalumni.

In this activity, the students consisted of 3 to 5 people from various faculties and departments. There were about 46 businesses in the workshop activities, and until now, only about 15-16 businesses.

Vice Chairman of Puspresma USU, Arif Qaedi Hutagalung, SE., M., SE., explained that this activity is an assessment event for USU students who have a business but do not participate in business competitions. This pitching is to see the potential in these young entrepreneurs.

"Because so far, many students already have entrepreneurs but do not want to participate in business competitions. We have not been able to track it, so the point is to track these students who have become entrepreneurs at the University of North Sumatra," explained Arif.

On the same occasion, Dany Sitompul, ST, MM, as the USU Puspresma Literacy and Entrepreneurship Coordinator, said that the assessment carried out by the jury was to see if the products produced were different from the others and had uniqueness and the resulting innovations were helpful for people around.

"Actually, the assessment we want to see is from the first product, which is the product idea. The product is a solution to the problems they see in their surroundings. Of course, the innovation is also what and how they can get _revenue_ from their business," said Dany.

"Teams that successfully pass this stage will receive funding to develop their businesses. They will also receive direct coaching and mentoring from experts in running their businesses, ultimately leading to increased customers."

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - --

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Education
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara