MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Signing MoU With Telkom University, USU Is Ready To Collaborate On The Implementation Of Tri Dharma
Signing MoU with Telkom University, USU is Ready to Collaborate on the Implementation of Tri Dharma
Published At
02 August 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Signing MoU with Telkom University, USU is Ready to Collaborate on the Implementation of Tri Dharma
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 02 August 2021

USU PUBLIC RELATION-MEDAN: The University of North Sumatra (USU) has proven itself to be open to collaborating with various parties. Recently, USU and Telkom University signed a Memorandum of Understanding on Thursday (7/1/2021) through a virtual meeting. The MoU is the first step for cooperation between the two higher institutions.

The Chancellor of USU, Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., who also represented USU in the signing, appreciated the steps taken by the two universities.According to him, collaboration is very necessary for the implementation of the TriDharma of Higher Education.

“It is a pleasure and honor for the University of North Sumatra to be given the opportunity to collaborate with Telkom University.The areas of cooperation are, among others, related to the implementation of education, training, assessment, research and institutional development, which are included in the Tri DharmaTertiary Education area," said the USU Chancellor.

He also mentioned that the collaboration was carried out in an effort to implement the Independent Learning-Independent Campus program which was mandated by the Ministry of Culture, Education, Research, and Technology.The program is to prepare students for their time after graduation.

“The implementation of the Merdeka Learning program at the Merdeka Campus provides opportunities for collaboration with various parties, including government, private and industrial institutions.That way, we try to provide sufficient provisions for students to face their futureafter graduation," he said.

He added, the Merdeka Learning program at the Merdeka Campus provides an opportunity for professionals and experts to share experiences and knowledge with students.Their experience is very useful to beapplied by students.

"Merdeka Studi Merdeka Campus is intended for students to have skills in work, not only shrewd and capable in the theoretical world, but students must be able in practice and application," said the Chancellor of USU.

The Chancellor of Telkom University, Prof. Dr. Adiwijaya, S.Si., M.Si., said USU is a strategic partner for the educational institutions he leads.The signing opens opportunities for Telkom University todevelop a series of programs.

“USU has an undoubted track record and has an impact on Indonesia's development.The collaboration that is realized through this collaboration becomes a role model to create students who have character and are able to buildsociety," said Prof. Adiwijaya.

Muryanto Amin added in his speech that universities should be able to come into direct contact with the community and not become an ivory tower.Universities must attend and sit together with the community to solve their problems.

“Higher education institutions must be down to earth; they must not be ivory towers, which only think about themselves.Through this collaboration, we strive to producestudents who are competitive, responsive, and have a high concern for society," Muryanto Amin added.

The Chancellor of USU and the Chancellor of Telkom University hoped that their cooperation could be realized in a script and held in more detail.The leaders of the two higher institutions witnessed the signing through a virtual meeting screen.(RR/©ULC)

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Rizki Hakim Lubis - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara