MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
University Activity
USU FMIPA Chemistry Study Program Students Hold CGS At School
USU FMIPA Chemistry Study Program Students Hold CGS at School
Published At
25 January 2024
Published By
David Kevin Handel Hutabarat
USU FMIPA Chemistry Study Program Students Hold CGS at School
 

Published by

David Kevin Handel Hutabarat

Published at

Thursday, 25 January 2024

Chemistry Goes to School was held in almost 60 schools across Medan, Binjai, Serdang Bedagai, Kisaran, Pematang Siantar, Padang Sidempuan, and Central Tapanuli. The activity, which started on January 15-20, 2024, was carried out by 91 students of the Chemistry Undergraduate Study Program, FMIPA, batch 2023, divided into 8 teams. With the spirit of usefulness and organized cooperation, the Chemistry Undergraduate Study Program students, assisted by the Chemistry Student Association (IMK) FMIPA USU, succeeded in preparing the school safari activity thoroughly.

Students are important in society as intellectuals who make the nation's life more intelligent. They are educated people who can provide knowledge and experience in their respective fields.

 

As educated young people with high energy and enthusiasm, students are part of the academic community who play an important role in spreading benefits to others. As done by the Chemistry Undergraduate Study Program students, FMIPA, Universitas Sumatera Utara in the Chemistry Goes to School (CGS) program, which took the initiative to carry out safaris in schools in North Sumatra. This activity was carried out to introduce Universitas Sumatera Utara and motivate students in North Sumatra to continue their education to higher education.

 

Chemistry Goes to School was implemented in almost 60 schools across Medan, Binjai, Serdang Bedagai, Kisaran, Pematang Siantar, Padang Sidempuan, and Central Tapanuli. The activity, which started on January 15-20, 2024, was carried out by 91 students of the Chemistry Study Program, FMIPA, batch 2023, divided into 8 teams. With the spirit of usefulness and organized cooperation, the Chemistry Study Program students, assisted by the USU FMIPA Chemistry Student Association (IMK), thoroughly prepared the school safari activity.

 

The activity began by introducing the USU campus, which is complete with faculties and various facilities; this material was also interspersed with information on the entrance routes to state universities, especially the USU entrance route. With the background of the FMIPA Chemistry Study Program students, the CGS material specifically explains the job prospects available if you become a chemistry student as one way to motivate students to continue their higher education, namely to achieve a bright future. Tips and tricks for passing campus entrance are also often given to comprehensively provide material with tactical steps that students can take to pass to enter state universities.

 

With the chemistry they are studying, USU FMIPA Chemistry students introduce pure chemistry in an exciting and fun way, namely direct chemical experiments. Students taking part in CGS can use chemicals and tools directly from the laboratory to experience real chemistry. This experiment is directly supervised by Chemistry undergraduate students from the class of 2023 who have been specially trained and equipped with in-depth chemical theory by laboratory assistants.

The chemistry experiments carried out included Elephant Toothpaste, Fire Hand, Activated Carbon Adsorption, and Lava Lamps. These chemistry experiments made students actively participate in the activities and made understanding how a chemical reaction can occur easier. Muhammad Rafli Nasution, the Chief Executive of CGS 2024, told of the excitement during the Chemistry Goes to School activity.

 

"The excitement during the activity can be seen from the students' enthusiasm in conducting experiments. They also actively asked questions during the activity. With this simple experiment, it is hoped that it can attract the attention of students to continue their studies to a higher level," said Rafli.

 

Chemistry Goes to School is a real manifestation of the spirit of usefulness of students for the advancement of education in North Sumatra. Through chemistry experiments, students get a broad picture of knowledge when entering the world of campus. (RJ/IMK FMIPA)

SDGs 4
SDGs
University Activity
Community Service Activity
Find More Activity
University Activity
USU Lecturer Concern on the Extinction of Orangutan Tapanuli
University Activity
USU professor turns shrimp shell waste into face serum
University Activity
USU Research Collaboration Lowers Stunting Rate in Sergai

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara