MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Facilities At Faculty Of Forestry USU, Kwala Bekala Campus To Be Built Soon
Facilities at Faculty of Forestry USU, Kwala Bekala Campus to be Built Soon
Published At
17 October 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Facilities at Faculty of Forestry USU, Kwala Bekala Campus to be Built Soon
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 17 October 2022

"Yes, indeed, access to road infrastructure to the location of the Faculty of Forestry campus is still not good. The university leadership realizes that the condition of service facilities at the Kwala Bekala Campus, which has been used since last year, still needs to be added immediately. According to the master plan, the Kwala Bekala Campus will be used as a a decent green campus and will be built in stages," the Rector said.

Access Roads and Facilities at USU's Faculty of Forestry, Kwala Bekala Campus to be Built soon

PR USU - The leadership of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) has responded to complaints from students of the Faculty of Forestry, Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) who have to study at the Kwala Bekala Campus by accelerating the construction of road access which is currently not in good condition.

USU Rector Dr Muryanto Amin, SSos, MSi in his statement explained that the decision to hold the Faculty of Forestry lectures at the Kwala Bekala Campus was so that the building that had been built since 2018 and inaugurated in 2020 could be used immediately.

"Yes, indeed, access to road infrastructure to the location of the Faculty of Forestry campus is still not good. The university leadership realizes that the condition of service facilities at the Kwala Bekala Campus, which has been used since last year, still needs to be added immediately. According to the master plan, the Kwala Bekala Campus will be used as a a decent green campus and will be built in stages," he said.

The Rector said that currently, various efforts have been made to improve infrastructure at the Kwala Bekala Campus. Carried out in stages, the improvements include infrastructure structuring programs such as roads, classrooms, internet networks, and others which are currently in the process of being rushed. The Kwala Campus Development Master Plan proposal has also been submitted for grants or loans to Bappenas.

"This year, road access and bridge repairs have also been carried out and will continue to be repaired with priority to the location of the Faculty of Forestry," he explained.

Meanwhile, the internet network and wi-fi access are in the process of being added according to learning needs. In the near future there will also be additional classrooms according to the number of students. Public space facilities such as parks will also be built both inside and around the building.

"We need time to carry out the planning and procurement process for these needs. We ask for the cooperation of students, lecturers, and education staff to be patient," he explained.

Campus II Kwala Bekala itself in the USU Strategic Plan (Renstra) as a first step has indeed been projected to become a place for lectures at the Faculty of Forestry. At that time, the Faculty of Forestry, which was the youngest faculty at USU, did not have its own building and was still attached to the Faculty of Agriculture.

The Faculty of Forestry building on Campus II Kwala Bekala was also built with the architectural concept of green building, which allows the absorption of natural light as much as possible with openings on all sides. The concept is believed to be able to minimize the use of electrical energy, both lights and air conditioners.

USU Rector Dr Muryanto Amin himself has several times reviewed the facilities and infrastructure at Campus II Kwala Bekala, especially to the Faculty of Forestry. Not only that, the Rector has also held several meetings with the Regent of Deliserdang for cooperation in improving access to road infrastructure at Campus II Kwala Bekala.

The Rector has also collaborated with the Regional Assets Financial Management Agency (BPKAD) of North Sumatra Province to fully support the development of Campus II Kwala Bekala, especially the USU Faculty of Forestry. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Management
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara