MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Inaugurates Three Permanent Professors
USU Inaugurates Three Permanent Professors
Published At
23 May 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Inaugurates Three Permanent Professors
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 23 May 2022

“The increase in the number of Professors has a significant effect on the quality of Tridarma PT also contributes to provide solutions to various problems that occur in in the middle of the community, "said the rector.

USU PR - The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) has officially confirmed three teachers Great stay USU. The inauguration event was held in the USU auditorium and

broadcast live via the USU Official Youtube channel on Thursday, (5/12/05/2022).

As for the three headmasters who were confirmed among them, Prof. Ir. Nurlisa Ginting, M.Sc., Ph.D., IPM, from the USU Faculty of Engineering, Prof. Dr. dr. Noni Novisari Soeroso, M.Ked (lung)., Sp.P (K). from the Faculty of Medicine, and Prof Rikson Asman Fertiles Siburian, S.Si., M.Si., Ph.D. from the Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences (FMIPA).

USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., said, USU currently has 178 Master and committed people will continue to add to that amount to give a positive impact on the development of the Indonesian state.

“The increase in the number of Professors has a significant effect on the quality of Tri Darma PT also contributes to provide solutions to various problems that occur in the middle of the community, "said the rector.

According to the Rector, the inauguration of the Professor for the second time this year is certainly a high pride for USU. It is due to the contribution and dedication given by The Professor gave a positive impact, especially on the fulfillment of indicators rating ratings that USU has achieved at the international level.

"Contributions of academic thought such as scientific publications in international journals are reputable and continuous innovation iis highly expected of the Master. The positive impact can be felt like the fulfillment of some assessment indicators in the ranking international that has been achieved by the Universitas Sumatera Utara, "said the rector.

On the same occasion, the rector mentioned that one of the indicators in International ranking assessment is academic reputation or academic reputation through scientific publications and citations and innovations related to the SDGs.

"Indicators produced by lecturers and students of the Universitas Sumatera Utara must

can reduce the problems that occur in society. Therefore, Master who have been appointed have an important role as leaders and role models for strengthening the relentless research and innovation base, ”said the rector.

One of the confirmed professors, Prof. Ir. Nurlisa Ginting, M.Sc., Ph.D.,IPM delivered an inaugural speech entitled “Place Identity as a Tourism Approach Sustainable ”. In his speech, he conveyed that the great support of the city in encouraging the tourism sector must consider environmental sustainability, economic, social, cultural, and governance. "The magnitude of the city's support in encouraging the tourism sector and tourism must be carefully consider the sustainability of the socio -cultural economic environment and order manage, ”said Prof Nurlisa.

According to him, the cities in the world that are a magnet for tourism always have historical value and tangible and intangible culture. It becomes the uniqueness of a goal tourism. "London, Barcelona, ​​Singapore, are tourist destinations with a distinctive place.

This distinctiveness radiates from the physicality of the city such as building typology, road network, environment, public open space, and the rest, which is an attraction for tourists to visiting the place. This uniqueness is a real form of place identity, "said Prof. Nurlisa.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara