MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Provides Training For Students At 36th Pimnas Bootcamp
USU Provides Training for Students at 36th Pimnas Bootcamp
Published At
30 November 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Provides Training for Students at 36th Pimnas Bootcamp
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 30 November 2023

USU can compete with other universities to achieve gold at PIMNAS. So, these eight groups are crucial foundations, representing the university's great hope, but they should not feel burdened. We aim to win gold to show that USU is not far behind prestigious universities, even those on Java. Thus, USU will provide facilities and support to inspire the PIMNAS delegates continuously," said Vice Rector I

USU PR- Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) organized a boot camp for the 36th National Student Scientific Week (PIMNAS) 2023, training selected delegates to compete at the main PIMNAS event. The Bootcamp occurred at Raz Hotel & Convention from Friday to Sunday (11/17-19/2023).

The Bootcamp for PIMNAS was attended by the Vice Rector I of USU, Dr. Edy Ikhsan S.H., M.A., the Director of Student Affairs (Ditmawa) USU, Doli Muhammad Jafar Dalimunthe, the Chair of the Student Creativity Program (PKM) Center, Dr. Ir. Zikri Noer, S.Si., M.Si., the USU PKM team, accompanying lecturers, and student delegates of PIMNAS 2023.

In his address, Dr. Ir. Zikri Noer, S.Si., M.Si., Chair of the USU PKM Center, stated that since November 10, the PKM Center, PKM Counter, and Ditmawa staff have been coordinating. They have already invited three speakers for the PIMNAS Bootcamp, covering champion mentality, public speaking, and poster presentations. The aim is to assist the delegation in preparing the final report independently, offering support during team presentations, and preparing for the scientific categories.

"After receiving the announcement of qualification, on November 10, PKM Center, PKM Counter, and Ditmawa staff coordinated and invited three speakers as presenters for the Bootcamp, discussing champion mentality, public speaking, and posters. This is intended to help the delegation work on the final report independently and provide assistance during team presentations and preparing for the scientific categories," said Zikri, Chair of the USU PKM Center.

The PIMNAS Bootcamp is a preparatory activity for the eight teams passing the PKP2 selection. The training includes sessions on champion mentality, public speaking, and poster presentations. Additionally, the organizing team has prepared reviewers to challenge the delegation teams in terms of production and substance. The teams will conduct three presentations during the Bootcamp, and professional support is available for the poster presentations.

The purpose of this activity is to assist the teams in their presentations, guide them in preparing the final report independently, and prepare for the scientific categories. These delegations will compete again at the 36th PIMNAS event at Padjadjaran University from November 26 to December 1, 2023. The eight delegation teams are from various faculties, including the Faculty of Engineering, the Faculty of Cultural Sciences, Mathematics and Natural Sciences, and the Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology.

Furthermore, Vice Rector I of USU, Dr. Edy Ikhsan S.H., M.A., expressed optimism that USU can compete with other universities to achieve gold at PIMNAS. Therefore, the university will provide all the facilities and support necessary to motivate the PIMNAS delegates.

"USU can compete with other universities to achieve gold at PIMNAS. So, these eight groups are crucial foundations, representing the university's great hope, but they should not feel burdened. We aim to win gold to show that USU is not far behind prestigious universities, even those on Java. Thus, USU will provide facilities and support to inspire the PIMNAS delegates continuously," said Dr. Edy.

As an appreciation from USU, Dr. Edy also mentioned that, according to national policy, the eight teams will gradually receive recognition of credit hours and will not need to take other courses. Moreover, those who win gold medals can skip their thesis. However, details about this will be discussed further in the ongoing development of university regulations.

"As part of national policy, these delegates will gradually receive recognition of credit hour, eliminating the need to take other courses. If the delegation wins a gold medal, they may not need to complete a thesis. However, whether they will be exempt from the thesis next year will be regulated in the upcoming rector's decree," added Dr. Edy.

In his interview, Doli Muhammad Jafar Dalimunthe, Director of Ditmawa USU, highlighted the difference in PIMNAS preparations between last year and this year. This year, funding was available, allowing for an 'In House' concept during practices. This means that the participating delegates were in one place for three days and two nights to optimize the preparation of the eight teams, in contrast to the previous year when no Bootcamp activity was conducted.

"This year, we have funding, meaning we are 'in-house.' The participants (USU delegation) are in one place for three days and two nights to optimize the preparation of the eight teams. In the previous year, we did not do this," said the Director of Ditmawa USU.

Lastly, Dr. Edy added that the tagline for USU this year is 'gold hunter,' with USU aiming for gold. As the pinnacle event at the national level, USU hopes that the eight teams competing will bring glory to the university.

"Hopefully, all our prayers will be answered so we can achieve proud achievements," concluded Dr. Edy."

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Muhammad Andriansyah - Humas

News
Education
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara