MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Social Science And Political Science
Undergraduate Program In Sociology
Undergraduate Program
Sociology
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Established in 1983, the Undergraduate Program in Sociology focuses on studying the structure of society, social interactions, social behavior, community problems, social phenomena, and social movements.

Emphasizing student-centered learning based on E-Learning, USU's Undergraduate Program in Sociology is backed by a conducive academic atmosphere, followed by experienced and nationally certified teaching staff highly dedicated to educating their students. Our study program is strongly committed to shaping our students into future social researchers, community empowerment agents, and novice social and development planning consultants who possess independence, critical thinking, discipline, and strong competitiveness.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

fisip@usu.ac.id

Undergraduate Program in Sociology

Accredited Excellent

No. 1239/SK/BAN-PT/Ak.KP/S/IV/2023

Vision of Undergraduate Program in Sociology

Becoming an International Pioneer Sociology Study Program that Excels in the Field of Social Research, Community Empowerment, and Social and Development Planning Beginner Consultants in 2021

Mission of Undergraduate Program in Sociology

Social Research

Organizing the learning process in social research, community empowerment, and novice consultant's social development planning by emphasizing student-centered learning. Based on E-learning supported by a conducive academic atmosphere.

International Research

Conducting a series of international research with the theme "Nationality amid local and global paradoxes" as a unique priority following the reality of multiculturalism. Uniqueness and priority by the reality of multiculturalism.

Community Service

Conducting community service focusing on poverty alleviation in coastal tourism and agricultural villages.

Sociology Laboratory

Developing the Sociology Laboratory as a data center for intergroup relations and service providers and data analysis training (quantitative, qualitative, and triangulation) using STATA, NVIVO, SEM, UCINET, and SPSS software with an international reputation.

Study Center

Manage the "Conflict Resolution and Intergroup Relations" Study Center with an international reputation.

Journal

Publishing the journal "Sociological Indicators of Sumatra" Sociology Study Program (print and e-journal) until it achieves national accreditation.

Establising Cooperation

Establishing research, service, and consultant cooperation in social development planning with international/national universities, international/national NGOs, MoV, Kesbanglinmaspol, Bappeda, and BPS.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Contact Us
Undergraduate Program in Sociology
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Dr. A. Sofian No. 1A, USU Padang Bulan Campus, Medan Baru, Medan City, North Sumatra - 20155

(+62) - 618211965

fisip@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara