MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Inaugurates Five Permanent Professors: Encouraging Academic Transformation And Global Contribution
USU Inaugurates Five Permanent Professors: Encouraging Academic Transformation and Global Contribution
Published At
27 December 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
USU Inaugurates Five Permanent Professors: Encouraging Academic Transformation and Global Contribution
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Friday, 27 December 2024

“Professors must be able to become leaders in research and development in accordance with the government's development vision and global needs. In addition, their role is expected to make a real contribution to regional development and cross-sectoral collaboration,” said Prof. Muryanto.

USU PR - The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) carried out the Inauguration of Permanent Professors, this marks an important momentum in USU's academic development. The inauguration took place at the USU Student Center, on Wednesday (18/12/2024).

This time, five professors were officially inaugurated, including Prof. Dr. Erikson Saragih, S.Pd., M.Hum. from the Faculty of Cultural Sciences, Prof. Dr. Ir. Yunasfi, M.Si from the Faculty of Forestry, Prof. Zulkarnain, Ph.D., Psychologist from the Faculty of Psychology, Prof. Dr. Ir. Mariati, M.Sc. from the Faculty of Agriculture, and Prof. Dr. Lisnawita, SP., M.Si. from the Faculty of Agriculture.

USU Rector, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., in his speech said that the inauguration of this professor is a strategic step to strengthen USU's position at the national and global levels.

“Professors must be able to become leaders in research and development in accordance with the government's development vision and global needs. In addition, their role is expected to make a real contribution to regional development and cross-sectoral collaboration,” said Prof. Muryanto.

The USU Rector emphasized that professors have responsibilities not only in the academic world, but also in developing scientific infrastructure and collaboration with the government and society. With the increasing number of professors, USU will further strengthen its role as a center for education, research, and community service.

“We will continue to increase the number of professors, while improving the quality of education in accordance with global standards,” he added.

In line with that, one of the inaugurated professors Prof. Zulkarnain, Ph.D., Psychologist, emphasized that becoming a professor is the culmination of a lecturer's long journey in carrying out the tridharma of higher education, especially in the field of research. Quality research and publications in reputable journals are an important part of the process.

“This process is not an easy thing, all struggles and sacrifices must exist. However, with determination and hard work, this achievement can be achieved,” said Prof. Zulkarnain.

Prof. Zulkarnain, Ph.D., Psychologist also advised students not to hesitate to continue their education to the highest level. Students are expected to continue their education to the master and doctoral levels by utilizing various scholarship opportunities provided by the government.

“After graduating from Undergraduate program, continue to Master's and Doctoral Program. Scholarship opportunities are very wide open at this time. Take advantage of these opportunities to improve your competence and contribute as academics in the future,” he added.

The inauguration of the five professors is proof of USU's commitment in encouraging academic transformation and increasing the university's competitiveness at the national and international levels. The event was also attended by the families of the professors, the USU academic community, and invited guests. The inauguration of these professors is also expected to inspire the younger generation to continue to excel and contribute to the nation and state.

News
Headline
SDGs 4
SDGs
SDGs Headline
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara