MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Vice Rector V USU Performance Evaluation At The End Of The Year
Vice Rector V USU Performance Evaluation at the End of the Year
Published At
02 October 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Vice Rector V USU Performance Evaluation at the End of the Year
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 02 October 2023

“To all sections in the field of asset management and business to evaluate and monitor all plans that have been prepared. Both in the fields of asset planning, business, and security. Especially for monitoring budget absorption. We must ensure that the budget is appropriate, effective, efficient, and sustainable,” said Vice Rector V USU.

USU PR - Vice Rector (WR) V for Asset and Business Management of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Ir. Luhut Sihombing, MP, and all work units under him are committed to improving performance both in the field of asset and business management as well as in the security section. This was conveyed at the implementation of a routine morning apple in the courtyard of the USU Central Administration Bureau Building on Monday, (02/10/2023).

Vice-Rector V of USU, in his mandate, asked all sections involved in Asset and Business Management to evaluate and monitor all work plans that had been prepared at the beginning of the year to be carried out properly and correctly.

By entering the end of the year, all fields conduct an evaluation to see both work plans or programs that have been implemented and to follow up on programs that have not been implemented.

“To all sections in the field of asset and business management to evaluate and monitor all plans that have been prepared. Both in the fields of asset planning, business, and security. Especially for monitoring budget absorption. We must ensure that the budget is appropriate, effective, efficient, and sustainable. We only have 3 months for everything to be monitored so that an action plan is made to resolve it. So that at the end of the year, we can get a good rating in asset and business management,” said Ir. Luhut Sihombing, MP. 

Furthermore, Ir. Luhut Sihombing, MP, highlighted the importance of security in the university's organization. In addition to securing internally, Ir. Luhut Sihombing, MP, also asked the security department to ensure the external part, namely activities in front of the campus, is clean from commercial activities. Furthermore, Ir. Luhut Sihombing, MP, also said that a clear monitoring mechanism should be established and communicated.

“In the field of security, we should not only secure internally but also externally. I see the development of activities in front of the campus is extraordinary. I ask the head of security to ensure that activities in front of the campus and also in front of the hospital are clean from commercial activities. This is the face of the university. Please create a mechanism for monitoring. As well as the others, please communicate to all those who sell in front so that they take a place that is in accordance with the corridor,” said Ir. Luhut Sihombing, MP.

Luhut Sihombing, MP, said that all work programs that have been planned to be monitored and evaluated so that action can be taken in accordance with the action plan or response to activities that have not been implemented.

“We are already in October. Yes, just a reminder that for all work programs that have been planned, the action plan should be monitored, whether it has been running and whether there is anything that has not been carried out so that action is taken for action plans or responses to activities that have not been carried out,” said Ir. Luhut Sihombi.

Finally, Ir. Luhut Sihombing, MP, hopes that all programs that have been planned can be implemented properly in accordance with the objectives that have been set and the budget that has been provided.

“The first hope is from the budget absorption that everything we have planned, all work programs, action plan programs, can all be implemented properly in accordance with the objectives of the program that has been funded. Secondly, we will ensure that all budgets that have been obtained have indeed targeted all the needs of our academic implementation to achieve the level of work required by the regulations, “hoped Ir. Luhut Sihombing, MP.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Public Relations

Interviewee: Ir. Luhut Sihombing - Vice Rector V USU

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Public Relations

News
Management
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara