MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Receives Audience From The Lemdiklat Polri
USU Receives Audience from the Lemdiklat Polri
Published At
11 January 2024
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Receives Audience from the Lemdiklat Polri
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 11 January 2024

We hope that this audience session can be continued with a more relaxed informal discussion regarding the things that we want to achieve in an agreed-upon collaboration," expressed Prof. Poppy.

USU Public Relations - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) received an audience from the National Police Education and Training Institute (Lemdiklat Polri). The event took place in the Rektor's Audience Room, Central Administration Bureau Building at USU, on Tuesday (12/19/2023).

This audience is a continuation of signing a memorandum of understanding (MoU) to discuss collaboration in university institutional management, improvement of academic quality, reputation achievement strategies, and ongoing collaborative research and publication programs.

The Vice Rector III of USU, Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan, S.Si., M.Si., Apt., representing the Rector of USU, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., warmly welcomed the visit from Lemdiklat Polri, based on the enhancement of friendship and cooperation between Lemdiklat Polri and USU in the future.

"On behalf of the Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara, we welcome Mr./Mrs. from the National Police Education and Training Institute of the Republic of Indonesia," expressed Prof. Poppy.

The Vice Rector III of USU hopes this meeting can naturally develop further. Thus, the two institutions can better explore the potential for cooperation and collaboratively plan concrete steps to achieve shared goals through ideas and strategies that benefit all parties involved in this collaboration.

"We hope that this audience session can be continued with a more relaxed informal discussion regarding the things that we want to achieve in an agreed-upon collaboration," expressed Prof. Poppy.

Dr. Edy Ikhsan, S.H., M.A., Vice Rector I for Academic Affairs, Student Affairs, and Alumni at USU, explained that discussions had taken place regarding the plan to establish a Police Studies Center. This initiative is driven by the significant role that North Sumatra plays in various police activities in Indonesia. With a multidisciplinary approach, it is expected to contribute significantly to the strengthening of the Indonesian National Police institution.

"This will contribute to strengthening the Indonesian National Police institution, especially for colleagues in regional police in North Sumatra," said Dr. Edy.

Dr. Susilo Teguh Raharjo, Head of the Education and Training Development Bureau of the Indonesian National Police, explained that there would be technical efforts to establish collaboration related to education and training tasks in the Indonesian National Police. Additionally, there will be an improvement in formulating or aligning perceptions about police science to develop candidates for the police force. The implementation of cooperation is targeted to be visible within 3 months.

"Of course, the reason we chose USU is that in the academic environment, USU is considered to provide many contributions to the field of science," clarified Dr. Susilo.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
SDGs
SDGs 16
SDGs 17
Collaboration
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara