MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
BSI Strengthens Education Support At USU Through BSI Scholarship Program
BSI Strengthens Education Support at USU through BSI Scholarship Program
Published At
05 November 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
BSI Strengthens Education Support at USU through BSI Scholarship Program
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Tuesday, 05 November 2024

“I hope that the scholarship recipients can make the best use of this opportunity, become excellent individuals, and bring the good name of USU and contribute to the wider community,” said Prof. Muryanto.

HUMAS USU - Bank Syariah Indonesia (BSI) once again shows its commitment in supporting education through the BSI Scholarship program. This year, the event handed over BSI scholarships to students of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU). The event took place at the USU Rector's Audience Room, on Thursday (31/10/2024).

In an effort to improve access to education and self-development for the younger generation, BSI announced an increase in the number of scholarship recipients this year. This scholarship program includes assistance in the form of Single Tuition Fees (UKT) and will be accompanied by special training to equip scholarship recipients with leadership skills. The program aims to produce outstanding students who are ready to become ambassadors of Islamic financial literacy in Indonesia.

In his speech, USU Rector, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., expressed his appreciation for the support provided by Bank Syariah Indonesia. He emphasized that this scholarship is an opportunity for students to develop themselves, not only in terms of academics but also in terms of leadership and social contribution.

“I hope that the scholarship recipients can make the best use of this opportunity, become excellent individuals, and bring the good name of USU and contribute to the wider community,” said Prof. Muryanto.

Meanwhile, Regional CEO of BSI Medan, Syahrial Al Rasyid, expressed his gratitude for the implementation of this scholarship handover event. He explained that this BSI scholarship is unique because the scholarship funds come from zakat which is set aside as much as 2.5% of company profits and employee salaries.

“Alhamdulillah, we were well received by the Rector. This is a form of Bank Syariah Indonesia's commitment to providing the best service to stakeholders, one of which is USU as a strategic partner of BSI,” said Syahrial.

Syahrial Al Rasyid emphasized that the scholarship was given to USU students. This scholarship not only helps with tuition fees but also supports student leadership development through a three-year mentoring program. He revealed BSI's plans to expand collaboration with USU through new innovations beyond scholarships.

“This year, there is a surge in the quota of scholarship recipients, with a total budget of nearly Rp786 million for three years. This program is expected to be sustainable,” Syahrial explained.

With this scholarship program, it is hoped that USU students will be more motivated to develop themselves and achieve achievements. Bank Syariah Indonesia through this program shows its commitment to not only encourage higher education but also build a generation that cares about the progress of the nation according to sharia values.

News
SDGs 4
SDGs
SDGs 1
SDGs 17
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara