MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Ranks Seventh Among Universities In Indonesia
USU Ranks Seventh Among Universities in Indonesia
Published At
12 April 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Ranks Seventh Among Universities in Indonesia
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 12 April 2022

USU ranks seventh in Indonesia or ranks 708 in the world. Specifically for the Research category, USU showed a slightly better order, which was at 325 in the world or ranked 6th nationally. This performance is supported by research in the field of Agricultural and Biological Science which is the first in Indonesia.

MEDAN – USU PR: The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) has shown consistency in developing and transforming. One of the results of these efforts USU is in seventh position based on the Scimago Institution Rank (SIR) assessment. These results are announced through the official website of the assessment agency.

USU ranks seventh in Indonesia or ranks 708 in the world. Specifically for the Research category, USU showed a slightly better order, which was at 325 in the world or ranked 6th nationally. This performance is supported by research in the field of Agricultural and Biological Science which is the first in Indonesia.

Periodically, SIR publishes the ranking of higher education institutions. The assessment is based on 3 groups of indicators, namely Research with a weighted value of 50%, Innovation with a weighting value of 30%, and Societal with a weighted value of 20%. This achievement is a good asset for USU in its efforts to become a world-class university (World Class University).

USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., said that this momentum must be maintained. This is because this announcement is a motivation for USU to further strengthen its role at the international level. Although it requires more energy, he is optimistic that USU can make a better record in the future.

"This is a momentum for us and we must keep it going. Do not let this spirit be slack. We know our struggle is hard, but that doesn't mean it's impossible. Gradually we will resolve existing deficiencies to maximize future results,” Muryanto Amin said. He also hopes that USU academic community can work together and synergize in this matter. According to him, efforts to increase USU's capacity will not occur as long as there is no communication and coordination between existing institutions.

Confirmed at the same time, the Chair of the USU World Class University (WCU) Acceleration Team, Prof. Dr. eng. Himsar Ambarita ST., MT. stated that this result could be USU's basis for establishing a program. USU's future programs must have an impact on increasing USU's ranking among universities in the world.

"The achievements of each indicator and the best research fields in SIR are used as a baseline in formulating USU's future development programs. The results of the Scimago are used to prioritize collaborative research development and determine which areas must be strengthened,” he said.

He gave an example of the field of Humanities which must receive special attention in the future in order to catch up with the fields of Science and Medicine. On this basis, USU is actively using the advantages in each existing field to invite other universities to conduct research and academic collaborations.

Not only through the SIR assessment agency, USU is currently also participating in the assessment process at several rating agencies, both national and international. Among them are Quacquarelli Symonds World University Rankings, Times Higher Education University Ranking, to the ranking of universities by the Ministry of Education, Culture, Research, Technology, and Higher Education of the Republic of Indonesia. (RR- ©ULC)

 

 

 

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Humas - Humas

News
Achievement
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara