MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
University Activity
Utilization Of Baglog Organic Waste In Mushroom Cultivation
Utilization of Baglog Organic Waste in Mushroom Cultivation
Published At
24 January 2023
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
Utilization of Baglog Organic Waste in Mushroom Cultivation
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Tuesday, 24 January 2023

Through this training on the production of compost from oyster mushroom baglogs, partners and trainees would hopefully have a greater understanding of the reuse of organic waste from oyster mushroom baglogs as compost in grown plant media. In addition, the production of F0-F2 oyster mushroom seedlings generation and compost from oyster mushroom baglogs has a high resale value, so it may improve empowerment and has excellent market potential.

Oyster mushrooms have been widely known as one of the community's food supplies. Oyster mushrooms, which are referred to as Pleurotus Ostreatus in Latin, are Basidiomycota mushrooms that are suitable for use in the daily diet. This mushroom has a white to the cream-colored fruiting body and a semicircular hood with a slightly concave center, like an oyster shell. The fruit body develops like an oyster and is widely farmed by the Indonesian people.

Due to their high carbohydrate, protein, vitamin, mineral, and amino acid content, oyster mushrooms are super healthy. In terms of health, oyster mushrooms are effective for anticancer activity and hypoglycemic effects, cancer, microbial infections, cholesterol-lowering agents, antibacterials, immune system boosters, and mushroom extracts as dietary supplements. Oyster mushroom agribusiness is bright and promising since it has benefited from conveniently available and affordable raw materials. This easy maintenance process doesn't require significant acreage, doesn't necessitate necessary skill requirements, and may create profits throughout the year. This mushroom does not pollute the environment. The baglogs used as planting medium may be used for animal and fish feed and can also be composted.

Every 100 grams of oyster mushrooms contain 367 calories, 10.5% to 30.4% protein, 56.6% carbs, 1.7% to 2.2% fat, 0.20 mg thiamin, 4.7-4.9 mg riboflavin, 77.2 mg niacin, and 314.0 mg calcium. The current output is just 37,020 tons, and the demand is 47,753 tons. While baglog waste includes macronutrients such as nitrogen (0.6%), phosphorus (0.7%), potassium (0.02%), and carbon (49%)

Rumah Jamur Sadam is one of the oyster mushroom farmers in Medan, with daily output ranging between 7 and 12 kg. This mushroom house can contain up to seven thousand baglogs. Rumah Jamur Sadam processes mushrooms into crispy oyster mushrooms (Jamur Krispi), mushroom pepes, mushroom satay, and mushroom tofu under the brand name 'Dapur Jamur' and is certified halal by MUI. However, this producer house has various problems, including the reliance on mushroom nursery producers for F0 to F2 oyster mushroom seeds generation, the inability to use mushroom baglog waste as compost, and the requirement to use mushroom baglog compost on grown plants.

Dr. Ir. Yaya Hasanah, M.Si, along with three other lecturers from the Faculty of Agriculture, Universitas Sumatera Utara, including Dr. Nini Rahmawati, S.P., M.Si, Dr. Mariani Br Sembiring, S.P., M.P., and Nursa'adah, S.ST., M.Agr., participated in community service at the Rumah Jamur Sadam, Rengas Pulau Village, Medan Maryland District, Medan.

A series of community service activities comprised instruction and practice in creating F0 to F2 oyster mushroom seedlings generations, training in generating compost from oyster mushroom baglog waste, use of oyster mushroom baglog waste in green bean plants, and transfer of technical products. Oyster mushroom seedlings are planted in baglog, a type of planting media. Because oyster mushrooms are wood mushrooms, the primary ingredient is sawdust. The baglog is wrapped in plastic in a cylinder with an opening at one end. The oyster mushroom will grow to protrude from the hole. Mushroom baglog waste is used as a growth medium for harvested oyster mushrooms, with the trash consisting of old baglogs and contaminated baglogs.

Partners of Rumah Jamur Tiram Sadam and the people who took part in the training in Rengas Pulau Village enjoyed this activity. The participants exhibited a high level of enthusiasm and comprehension of the supplied information. In addition, participants tried creating breeding medium and F0-F2 oyster mushroom seedlings generations, composting oyster mushroom baglogs, and applying baglog compost to grown plants.

Through this training on the production of compost from oyster mushroom baglogs, partners and trainees would hopefully have a greater understanding of the reuse of organic waste from oyster mushroom baglogs as compost in grown plant media. In addition, the production of F0-F2 oyster mushroom seedlings generation and compost from oyster mushroom baglogs has a high resale value, so it may improve empowerment and has excellent market potential. (RJ)

University Activity
Community Service Activity
Find More Activity
University Activity
USU Lecturer Concern on the Extinction of Orangutan Tapanuli
University Activity
USU professor turns shrimp shell waste into face serum
University Activity
USU Research Collaboration Lowers Stunting Rate in Sergai

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara