MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU's 72nd Anniversary, Rector Prof. Muryanto Amin Asks Graduates To Have Special Competencies To Face Global Challenges
USU's 72nd Anniversary, Rector Prof. Muryanto Amin asks graduates to have special competencies to face global challenges
Published At
22 October 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
USU's 72nd Anniversary, Rector Prof. Muryanto Amin asks graduates to have special competencies to face global challenges
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Tuesday, 22 October 2024

“Adjusting the curriculum is something that must be done so that USU graduates can be competitive in the era of global competition. This at USU has begun to be implemented, how the curriculum will be made flexible so that students are able to understand theoretical and practical aspects,” he said.

USU PR - Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., in the opening speech of the 72nd Anniversary session themed “Strengthening the Higher Education Ecosystem to Achieve Golden Indonesia.” said, to face global challenges, university graduates must have special competencies, such as digitalization, automation, energy, environment, health, and genetic engineering.

 

“These special skills will be very useful in facing global challenges. So, in addition to excelling academically, USU graduates must also be able to adapt to rapid changes in the world of work. Graduates need to be competitive, adaptive, flexible, and productive individuals while upholding the values of Pancasila as a moral foundation,” he said Tuesday (15/10/2024).

 

Prof. Mury also explained that the curriculum should be designed to equip students with practical and technical skills that match market demands, in order to reduce the gap between graduates' skills and industry expectations. Programs such as internships, industrial projects, and case study-based learning provide students with hands-on experience that prepares them for the challenges of the working world.

 

“Curriculum adjustment is something that must be done so that USU graduates can be competitive in the era of global competition. This at USU has begun to be implemented, how the curriculum will be made flexible so that students are able to understand theoretical and practical aspects,” he said.

 

Prof. Mury said that experiences in the world of work such as internships or KKN programs can help students develop the problem-solving skills needed to adapt quickly in various industrial situations.

 

Prof. Muryanto Amin also explained the theme chosen for this year's anniversary, which is strengthening the higher education ecosystem to achieve a golden Indonesia.

 

“This theme is important to encourage the spirit of collaboration between all elements in the field of higher education, considering that the young generation that is being formed through the Tri Dharma Perguruan Tinggi activities today and in the years to come will become the future leaders of Indonesia, which is often echoed as the golden generation,” he said.

 

The Rector explained that structuring a good ecosystem by creating supporting facilities and infrastructure will make the spirit of learning and the spirit of researching the USU academic community more productive. Therefore, Prof. Mury at the beginning of his leadership was concerned with the issue of infrastructure equality at USU to create a fundamentally strong academic ecosystem.

 

“I have carried that spirit since I led USU. Because we are well aware that the process of forming a superior young generation, seeds of national leaders who are full of innovation and high national spirit requires time, energy, resilience and continuity,” he said.

 

The 72nd Anniversary of USU itself was solemn and festive. Presenting the CEO of Malaka Project, Ferry Irwandi in a scientific oration, USU students are expected to be able to open new horizons in viewing the concept of education and life.

 

News
SDGs
SDGs 16
SDGs 17
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara