MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Launches 69th Dies Natalis Logo Guidelines
USU Launches 69th Dies Natalis Logo Guidelines
Published At
25 August 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Launches 69th Dies Natalis Logo Guidelines
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 25 August 2021

USU PUBLIC RELATIONS-MEDAN: In order to welcome the 69th Anniversary, the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) launched a logo for the celebration. USU’s 69th Anniversary itself falls on August, 20. As is known, USU history began with the establishment of the Universitas Sumatera Utara Foundation on August 20, 1952. The establishment of this foundation was pioneered by the Governor of North Sumatra to fulfill the wishes of the people of North Sumatra in particular and the Indonesia people in general.

1.    Logo Philosophy

On the 69th Anniversary logo, USU promote the theme “Working Together to Protect Our Health Against Covid-19 Threats.” USU uses English as the theme to show the spirit of Internationalization. Since being sworn in as Rector of USU, Muryanto Amin has been keen to promote the internalization of the USU campus. This is in line with the program which aims to make USU equal to other world’s top universities.

The theme is implemented in a series of shapes and colors through the logo. USU introduced the 69th Anniversary logo using seeral forms in dynamic, geometric, and contemporary compositions. An agile and adaptive impression is displayed from the logo which uses a simple shape but looks special. The logo that was introduced summarized all the messages and motivations that USU firmly holds to keep growing. In line with USU’s current jargon, “Transformation Towards the Ultimate.”

2.    Logo Meaning

The USU 69th Anniversary logo consists of a series of shapes that have their own meaning. The logo is here to summarize all of USU’s messages and motivations in achieving its goals.

The Number 69

The form of the number 69 is an indicator of the number of years USU has passed since its establishment. The number 69 is made in such a way as to show the synergy that USU has made in developing. The use of different colors in the two digits of the number shows unity in difference. USU wants to convey a message of dissent which consists of students from various backgrounds becoming one.

Cooperation

In carrying out all of the activities, USU believes that cooperation with various parties will bring USU to a higher level. The message of cooperation is depicted in a square shape with each side touching each other to resemble a frame. USU believes that cooperation and collaboration is a necessity, because work done together will produce maximum value.

Protecting

As a state higher education institution, USU is committed to protect the entire academic community. The message protecting is represented by a square with sides that do not interact. This form gives a message that USU provides freedom for the academic community to work but still carries out the function of protecting. 

Health

In line with the theme, USU was present from the start to encourage efforts to imrove public health. Using the shape of a cross, health messages are represented by USU’s contribution to helping the government in dealing with Covid-19. Through its Education Hospital, USU provides maximum service to the academic community and also the community.

Focus

USU has set several targets to be achieved in at least the next five years. To achieve this, USU has shown a focused attitude. In the logo, it is represented by a square shape with sides that do not intersect with the shape of the cross in the middle. If you look closely, the shape is similar to a shot. Focus is required so that the goals to be achieved can be pursued to the fullest.

Organization/Community

USU as the largest university outside Java island consists of a series of organizations and communities. The presence of these organizations and communities become the foundation for USU to stand as a higher education institution. There are four squares arranges in precision and parallel to show that each of these organizations and communities has the same role and has equal value to USU.

Vision

As a higher education institution, USU certainly has a series of visions. The vision is depicted in such a way as to indicate the direction of development. Through this form, USU wants to convey that this vision will bring transformation to a better direction.

Innovation

Innovation is a part of USU’s body. USU always encourages its academic community to continue to innovate within the framework of the Tri Dharma of Higher Education. Through research, learning, and community service, USU presents these innovations to become a problem solver for the community.

Strengthen

Every element at USU strengthens each other in making efforts to achieve common goals. Four square shapes that are closed with a square in the middle give a message of strengthening each other between the elements at USU. by strengthening each other USU believes that no obstacle is too hard to overcome.

Collaboration

Align with several other motivational messages in an effort to achieve common goal, USU prioritizes collaboration with various parties. As we understand collaboration, USU is open to connect and carry out activities hand in hand with various parties. Collaboration brings wider opportunities and provides wider opportunities for USU to develop.

Development

The shape of the frame with a square dot in the middle shows the message of USU’s development. USU believes that every development begins with a small step. The developments that are currently being carried out are a collection of these small dots until they become a result that can be felt by the entire academic community.

Unity

Through a solid square shape, USU conveys a message of unity from all existing elements. Solid form shows that unity will provide strength. Unity makes USU able to stand firmly in the times. The message of unity shows the differences that combined in a container will bring out strength.

Growth

As illustrated in the jargon “Transformation Towards the Ultimate”, USU continues to grow for the better. The triangular shape arranged upwards gives the impression of USU’s continued growth. USU does not remain silent in global competition, but improves and tries to adapt. Growth is inevitability for USU.

3.    Logo Guideline

The USU 69th Anniversary logo can be used by all academics. However, in its use, USU provides a series of guidelines. Especially regarding the use of color, although by naked eye, the dominant colors used are green and orange. However, there are basically six colors that make up the logo. The green dominant color consists of three color gradations, which are represented by the code #5CB733, #529A3D, and #487C46. Meanwhile, the orange dominant color consists of three color gradations, namely #F6AE01, #F28800, and #EB680D. The logo can be widely used by all USU academics.

All of these guidelines and logos can be accessed at https://www.usu.ac.id/id/panduan-identitas-visual pada menu Panduan Identitas Visual. (©ULC)

 

Author: Universitas Sumatera Utara - Universitas Sumatera Utara

Interviewee: Universitas Sumatera Utara - Universitas Sumatera Utara

Photographer: Universitas Sumatera Utara - Universitas Sumatera Utara

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara