MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
University Activity
Two USU Professors Participated In Succeeding The Food Estate Program In Humbahas
Two USU Professors Participated in Succeeding the Food Estate Program in Humbahas
Published At
21 May 2021
Published By
David Kevin Handel Hutabarat
Two USU Professors Participated in Succeeding the Food Estate Program in Humbahas
 

Published by

David Kevin Handel Hutabarat

Published at

Friday, 21 May 2021

The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is ready to participate in and contribute to the government's Food Estate program. USU recently sent two of its best professors, Prof. Abdul Rauf and Prof. Noverita, to join the Food Estate master plan team.

The central and local governments, cooperating with the campus, continue to boost Food Estate development in North Sumatra Province.

Through the Directorate General of Horticulture of the Ministry of Agriculture, the central government is working with the Regional Government of North Sumatra Province, the Universitas Sumatera Utara, and the Institut Teknologi Del to boost the program’s success.

USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, who attended the Potato Harvest and Kickoff of the 785-hectare Food Estate in Ria-ria Village, Pollung District, Humbang Hasundutan Regency, on Tuesday (23/3), said that at least several points became the main focus in the development of this Food Estate.

“One of them is reducing the use of pesticide fertilizers. This needs to be socialized and supported to be applied by local farmers. Farmers must also consider the environmental impact, so expect farmers to be supported to use more natural fertilizers,” he said.

In addition, farmers’ production must be supported to improve their welfare. According to him, the welfare of farmers is an important focus to achieve so that farmers can improve their standard of living. Therefore, USU is ready to reduce its academic community to encourage the welfare of farmers.

“Through the Merdeka Belajar Kampus Merdeka program, USU will contribute by sending students and lecturers to apply their knowledge on this existing land. All faculties can contribute, not only the Faculty of Agriculture but also the Faculty of Engineering and others,” he said.

The USU Rector believes that the collaboration between the campus and the central and regional governments will make the Food Estate program more targeted and achieve the goals that have been set together. When we met at the event, the Rector of Institut Teknologi Del, Prof. Ir. Togar M. Simatupang, M.Tech, Ph.D, hoped that this collaboration would positively impact the development of the Food Estate.

“This momentum is good for the future development of this Food Estate. The joining of USU and IT Del provides great potential for the success of this program. USU and IT Del have often worked together, so they already know each other,” said Rector of IT Del.

With the presence of USU and IT Del, cooperation and synergy can be appropriately facilitated so that the process of breeding, cultivation, harvesting, and marketing can be appropriately facilitated. Of course, this will impact the welfare of farmers. As a result, empowerment of the surrounding community can be carried out and have a real impact.

“As the Governor of North Sumatra said, North Sumatra produces only 9% of the onion. The governor expects onion production to be above 20% in the future. This will have a real impact on the community,” he added.

The Potato Harvest and Food Estate Kickoff was attended by the Governor of North Sumatra, leaders of the Directorate General from across ministries, and regional leaders of Humbang Hasundutan Regency. The whole group is scheduled to conduct a visitation and the first potato harvest.

Article
University Activity
Community Service Activity
Find More Activity
University Activity
USU Lecturer Concern on the Extinction of Orangutan Tapanuli
University Activity
USU professor turns shrimp shell waste into face serum
University Activity
USU Research Collaboration Lowers Stunting Rate in Sergai

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara