MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Inauguration Of IKA MSP USU: Ready To Collaborate For The Advancement Of Alma Mater And Society
Inauguration of IKA MSP USU: Ready to Collaborate for the Advancement of Alma Mater and Society
Published At
16 December 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
Inauguration of IKA MSP USU: Ready to Collaborate for the Advancement of Alma Mater and Society
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Monday, 16 December 2024

“Because the existence of alumni, as the Rector said earlier, is very urgent to help each other with the university,” Hatta said.

USU PR - The Master of Development Studies (MSP) of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held an inauguration ceremony for the MSP Alumni Association (IKA) board at the Multipurpose Hall of the USU Faculty of Social and Political Sciences (FISIP) on Saturday, (07/12/2024).

In his remarks, USU Rector, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos M.Si emphasized the importance of the role of alumni in supporting the development of institutions and society. The Rector appreciated the dedication of H. Sugiat Santoso, S.E., MSP as the new Chairman of IKA MSP, and highlighted the importance of alumni as a “local position”, namely influential figures who are able to provide direction even though they do not hold formal power.

“I would like to thank Mr. Sugiat for accepting this mandate as the alumni chairman at USU,” said the rector.

The rector also conveyed his achievements in resolving alumni organizational conflicts down to the study program level, making alumni a strategic force in encouraging regional development and consolidating democracy.

“So I completed it from the central board, after that the regional board until now in the study program,” explained the rector.

In addition, the Rector also encouraged the synergy between IKA MSP and IKA Doktor in order to provide a new color in the course of governance in Medan and North Sumatra, as well as changing the bad image such as thuggery found in Medan into a constructive force.

On another occasion, the Dean of FISIP, Dr. Hatta Ridho, S.Sos. MSP, explained the reciprocal relationship between alumni and the university. According to him, the university is committed to helping alumni in building careers in various fields, including bureaucracy and entrepreneurship. Conversely, alumni are expected to contribute to the alma mater through scholarship assistance for students and expanding the world of work networks.

“Because the existence of alumni, as the Rector said earlier, is very urgent to help each other with the university,” Hatta said.

On the other hand, Chairman of IKA MSP, H. Sugiat Santoso, S.E., MSP also highlighted the importance of university involvement in supporting a healthy social ecosystem, including political, economic, and educational development as a function of the tri dharma of higher education.

“The campus must be actively involved, not only during the elections but also after the victory. How can development in the city of Medan be guided with an academic approach to truly prosper the people,” he said.

As an initial work program after being inaugurated, Sugiat revealed plans to consolidate alumni spread across various provinces. One of them is to hold a grand reunion involving 750 MSP alumni. In addition, he believes that MSP USU alumni can make a major contribution to society through a more scientific and directed academic approach with the knowledge they have gained.

“We will consolidate 750 MSP USU alumni. In the near future, with the permission of the dean, we will also make a grand reunion so that they can return to their alma mater and contribute to the progress of their alma mater,” Sugiat concluded.

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara