MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU - UiTM Sign Memorandum Of Understanding For Accounting Symposium
USU - UiTM Sign Memorandum of Understanding for Accounting Symposium
Published At
04 March 2024
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU - UiTM Sign Memorandum of Understanding for Accounting Symposium
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 04 March 2024

“We are happy and welcome the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding for the Accounting Research Symposium and Forum, which will be facilitated directly by the Faculty of Economics and Business, Universitas Sumatera Utara,” said the Rector of USU.

USU PR - The signing of the Memorandum of Understanding for the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Accounting Symposium and Research Forum has taken place successfully, facilitated by the Faculty of Economics and Business (FEB) USU. The event was held at the Prof. Dr. Suhadji Hadibroto Hall of FEB USU on Friday (01/03/2024).

The presence of the UiTM Rector and the delegation of the Universitas Sumatera Utara was welcomed by the USU Rector, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si, along with all MoA event participants and Guest Lecturers. In his speech, the USU Rector expressed his hope that with this agreement and signing, various cooperation agreements could be implemented immediately and run smoothly until the end of the agreement period. This is considered important to strengthen the academic relationship between the two universities, as well as to emphasize collaborative projects in organizing accounting symposiums and research forums.

“We are happy and welcome the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding for the Accounting Symposium and Research Forum, which will be facilitated directly by the Faculty of Economics and Business, Universitas Sumatera Utara,” he said.

After the signing of the memorandum of understanding, the event rolled into a Guest Lecture Session featuring Dr. Noor Marini Haji Abdullah from UiTM as the keynote speaker. The event aimed to provide new insights, encourage intellectual exchange, and explore fresh ideas.

On that occasion, the Rector of Universiti Teknologi MARA (UiTM), YBhg. Prof. Dr. Haji Abdol Samad Bin Nawi stated that UiTM's visit to USU aims to establish collaboration with the University of North Sumatra, especially in organizing seminars, research, student exchanges, and students. He also emphasized his commitment to synergize with professors, doctors, and experts at USU in order to conduct useful research.

“So we from UiTM came here to be together with the Universitas Sumatera Utara to hold collaborations, especially in the fields of seminars, research, student and student exchanges, and calibration with the Universitas Sumatera Utara together with professors, doctors, and experts, and will conduct research,” Abdol said.

Dean of the Faculty of Economics and Business at the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), Dr. Fadli, S.E., stated that USU has a target to reach the 500th rank in the QS World University Rankings. Currently, Universiti Teknologi MARA (UiTM) is ranked 555, while USU is ranked 1200. Therefore, it is hoped that cooperation in joint research, community service, international mobility of students, and exchange of lecturers by both universities can be mutually beneficial. The collaboration between the two universities has been going well for the past two years. This year, 47 undergraduate students from USU participated in the international mobility program at UiTM.

“As we all know, USU wants to penetrate the 500 QS World Ranking. UiTm is ranked 555 while USU is at 1200, so it is hoped that together with joint research, joint community service, international mobility students, and lecturer exchange, we can get mutual benefits for both universities. considering that the cooperative relationship between these two universities has been good in the last two years. and this year, there are 47 undergraduate students who take part in the international mobility student program at UiTM, “said Fadli.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Public Relations

Interviewee: Prof. Muryanto Amin - Rector of USU

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Public Relations

News
SDGs
SDGs 17
Collaboration
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara