MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
University Activity
Tempe Product Packaging Innovation Increases Productivity
Tempe Product Packaging Innovation Increases Productivity
Published At
19 October 2022
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
Tempe Product Packaging Innovation Increases Productivity
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Wednesday, 19 October 2022

Assistance in efforts to improve the community's economy is one of the activities contained in community service activities. Likewise, what was done by a team of lecturers from the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), when carrying out a series of community service activities as part of the implementation of the Tri Dharma of Higher Education at MSMEs Tempe Misran Jalan Pasar 1 Tanjung Sari Medan.

The service, which carries the theme "Increasing Productivity through Improvement of Processing Equipment and Innovation of Tempe Product Packaging at the Tempe Misran MSME" is funded by USU's 2022 Non-PNBP Funding Professor Serving Scheme. The activity took place at the Tempe Misran MSME, Jalan Pasar 1 Tanjung Sari Medan and was chaired by Prof. Dr. Ir. Elisa Julianti, M.Si., from the Master's Program in Food Science, Faculty of Agriculture.

In his speech, Prof. Elisa said that efforts to improve tools in tempe processing would have a very large impact on the sustainability and increase in tempe production from the Misran SMEs. The processing equipment provided is in the form of a soy bean stew. The provision of these tools is because the boiling tools owned by the Tempe Misran MSME have so far been old, which in terms of hygiene are also not suitable for use, because they are made of aluminum plates that are easy to rust.

The boiling tool provided is made of stainless steel so it is not easy to rust. Another processing tool provided is a soybean crusher with a much larger capacity than currently owned by the Tempe Misran SMEs. The capacity of the soybean crusher can reach 1 ton of soybeans per hour, while the equipment currently owned only has a capacity of 400 kg/hour.

In addition, at this momentum, packaging innovations were also carried out which aimed to increase the added value of tempe products which had been marketed around Tanjung Sari Medan. The type of packaging used so far by Tempe Misran SMEs is plastic packaging without being labeled. In this activity, the USU community service team carried out label design, as well as testing the nutritional composition of tempeh so that it could be displayed on the packaging label. The USU service team also assisted Tempe Misran SMEs in obtaining a Home Industry Food permit (PIRT) from the Health Office and halal certification. Furthermore, the PIRT number and halal logo can be added to the Tempe Packaging Label which will be marketed by partners.

According to Prof. Elisa Julianti, tempeh is a traditional Indonesian food that has a million benefits and has been worldwide, for that it needs special attention so that its production continues. It is hoped that by increasing the productivity of tempe processing as well as packaging modifications and compliance with product regulations such as PIRT and halal permits, tempe products from Misran SMEs can be marketed not only in the surrounding environment, but can penetrate modern markets.

According to Misran as the owner of the tempeh SME, the increasing price of soybeans is the main obstacle in regulating the size and market strategy of tempeh. Misran hopes that MSMEs will continue to survive amid soaring soybean prices and their productivity can increase with the community service carried out by the USU community service team. In addition to repairing tools and innovating tempe packaging, the USU Abdimas team also made tempeh by substituting soybeans using red beans and other types of beans to reduce dependence on soybeans.

The team consisted of Prof. Dr. Halimatuddahliana, S.T., M.T., from the Department of Chemical Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, Edy Syahputra Harahap, S.TP., M.Si., and Syahira Addina, S.Pi., M.Si., from the Food Technology S1 Study Program, Faculty of Agriculture. Also accompanying were five students from the Food Technology Study Program, USU Faculty of Agriculture. (RJ – ©ULC)

University Activity
Community Service Activity
Find More Activity
University Activity
USU Lecturer Concern on the Extinction of Orangutan Tapanuli
University Activity
USU professor turns shrimp shell waste into face serum
University Activity
USU Research Collaboration Lowers Stunting Rate in Sergai

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara