MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Engineering
Doctoral Program In Civil Engineering Science
Doctoral Program
Civil Engineering Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Doctoral Program in Civil Engineering Science began operations in 2007 and has experienced rapid development since then. The main objective of this study program is to produce experts in the field of Civil Engineering who have the ability to develop and update scientific and technological knowledge in the field. The program also aims to produce graduates who can contribute significantly to the development and application of technology in various sub-disciplines of Civil Engineering, such as Structural Engineering, Transportation Engineering, Geotechnical Engineering, Construction and Engineering Management, and Water Resources Engineering.

The vision of the Doctoral Program in Civil Engineering Science is to become a master and doctoral study program that is a pioneer in international standard academic excellence. The program aims to produce innovative research that is able to compete globally, with a focus on addressing infrastructure challenges both at the local and national levels by 2024. Graduates of this program are expected to fulfill various important roles in addressing the increasingly urgent infrastructure needs at the local and national levels. The students who complete this study program will earn a Doctoral degree (Dr.) and are ready to contribute to the development of the Civil Engineering field with their skills and knowledge.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

mdts@usu.ac.id

Doctoral Program in Civil Engineering Science

Accredited Baik

90/SK/BAN-PT/Ak-PPJ/D/I/2022

Vision of Doctoral Program in Civil Engineering Science

To become a Master's and Doctoral Study Program in Civil Engineering that pioneers international standard academic excellence and produces innovative research that is able to compete globally by answering local and national infrastructure challenges in 2024.

Mission of Doctoral Program in Civil Engineering Science

Education

Organizing a Master's and Doctoral Study Program in Civil Engineering that produces graduates who are dignified, innovative with integrity, resilient and professional, and able to compete at the international level in line with the development of science and technology.

Research

Carry out and support research activities in the field of innovative and dynamic civil engineering that can answer global challenges and be applied to society.

Graduates

Producing graduates of the Master's and Doctoral Study Program in Civil Engineering who are ready to use in accordance with industry needs and developments.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Structural Engineering

Geotechnical Structures

Public Infrastructure Management

Contact Us
Doctoral Program in Civil Engineering Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Almamater, Padang Bulan, Medan Baru, Medan City, North Sumatra - 20155

+628116069333 (Head of the Study Program); +628126055391 (Secretary of the Study Program); +6281396949384 (Admin)

mdts@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara