MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Faculty Of Law 8th Anniversary At Campus II Kwala Bekala
USU Faculty of Law 8th Anniversary at Campus II Kwala Bekala
Published At
30 November 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Faculty of Law 8th Anniversary at Campus II Kwala Bekala
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 30 November 2022

"This limitation is a challenge and at the same time it is an opportunity that must be utilized optimally to make the Faculty of Forestry more advanced than before, as well as achieve the vision, mission and work programs of the dean that have been set," Prof. Opim said.

USU Public Relations - Commemorating the 8th and 23rd Anniversary, the Faculty of Forestry and the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Forestry Studies Program conducted a series of activities with the theme "Go Beyond the Limit and Be the Champion".

Taking place on Wednesday (11/16/2022) the 8th and 23rd Anniversary celebrations were the first anniversary celebrations held at Campus II Kwala Bekala USU.

Vice Rector (WR) IV for Information, Planning and Development at the Universitas Sumatera Utarar Prof. Dr. Drs. Opim Salim Sitompul M.Sc in his remarks, spoke about the adaptation process of USU's Faculty of Forestry which officially transferred all academic affairs from Campus I USU Padang Bulan to Campus II at Kwala Bekala.

WR IV appealed to the limited spirit of the Faculty of Forestry academics not to dampen their enthusiasm to lead USU to become an international university.

"This limitation is a challenge and at the same time it is an opportunity that must be utilized optimally to make the Faculty of Forestry more advanced than before, as well as achieve the vision, mission and work programs of the dean that have been set," Prof. Opim said.

Prof. Dr. Drs. Opim Salim Sitompul explained that in the age range of 8 and 23, the Faculty of Forestry and Forestry Study Program were able to become leading forestry educational institutions in Indonesia and able to become leaders in efforts to conserve, preserve and utilize forest resources in the future.

"I hope that the Faculty of Forestry can move faster and more agile in meeting all of the Rector's performance targets and actively pioneering academic activities and international cooperation," he said.

In order to achieve this, of course, the university is trying hard to complete all the shortcomings of the Faculty of Forestry, one of which is in terms of infrastructure, especially regarding access to Campus II Kwala Bekala.

"Earlier we heard together that the main complaint was access. Yes, hopefully later we can continue to fix it. Hopefully later there will be no more obstacles so that we can invite more students and then with the addition of infrastructure it will further advance forestry education," USU WR IV added.

At the age of 23, USU Forestry Study Program has had a number of achievements, one of which is the strength of lecturer human resources.

Dean of USU Faculty of Forestry Dr. Rudi Hartono S.Hut., M.Sc., said that the lecturers at the Faculty of Forestry had a high enthusiasm for research and publication so that the Faculty of Forestry won 1st place in publication. After this, the Faculty of Forestry will increase international cooperation as one of the boosters for USU's target to become a world class university.

"We will collaborate with several universities and of course we hope that the existing facilities will be improved and equipped. Next year we will also be holding a summer course which hopefully will bring in guests from abroad," the Dean of the Faculty of Forestry explained.

Through the theme Go Beyond the Limit and Be the Champion which was raised at this celebration, the Dean of the USU Faculty of Forestry said that USU Faculty of Forestry would break boundaries and maximize all efforts to become champions.

"Therefore, with the spirit of limitations, we can participate with all those who are there to reach the peak of becoming champions," he added.

For information on the commemoration of the 8th and 23rd Anniversary, USU Faculty of Forestry and Forestry Study Program signed a partnership with PT Toba Pulp Lestari which was then followed by a forestry seminar. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Dies Natalis
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara