MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Board Of Professors Is Ready To Support The Leaders' Strategic Policies
USU Board of Professors is Ready to Support the Leaders' Strategic Policies
Published At
07 October 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Board of Professors is Ready to Support the Leaders' Strategic Policies
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 07 October 2021

Young lecturers and professors are expected to collaborate in dealing with any changes presented by the current era of disruption. According to him, young lecturers are more capable of being agile in responding to changes, while professors have the experience and intellectual wisdom that young lecturers must adopt in their service to the world of education.

USU Public Relations - The Board of Professors (DGB) of the Universitas Sumatera Utara(USU) in its duties and functions as an institution that plays a role in providing input and views to university leaders on the implementation of various work programs that have been determined, as well as supporting every strategic policy issued by the USU leadership.

Chairman of the Board of Professors at the Universitas Sumatera UtaraProf. Dr. dr. Gontar Alamsyah Siregar, Sp.PD, KGEH became the ceremonial coach in the routine apple ceremony, Monday (4/10) at the USU Central Administration Bureau.

Prof. Gontar said that all of these programs aim to build USU to be better than previous times and ready to compete at the global level.

In line with the Merdeka Learning program at the Merdeka Campus, Prof. Gontar emphasized that lecturer as educators are required to work hard in updating and improving their soft and hard skills.

Digitization which marks the current era of disruption provides the widest opportunity for educators to develop their competencies and abilities and provides assurance that their knowledge is not far behind their students.

"Being educators in the era of digital technology requires us to constantly innovate, never stop learning and always be up to date with various changes that are happening so rapidly," he said.

Young lecturers and professors are expected to collaborate in dealing with any changes presented by the current era of disruption. According to him, young lecturers are more capable of being agile in responding to changes, while professors have the experience and intellectual wisdom that young lecturers must adopt in their service to the world of education.

"Thus, the transferability and synergy of the two groups will be able to provide a commensurate answer to the demands for the performance of teachers in the industrial era 4.0," he said.

Prof. Gontar added, with a number of existing challenges, the USU Board of Professors continues to move to improve its role at the academic level, both internally and externally, nationally and globally through technological adaptation.

"I advise all apple participants, keep the spirit of implementing the Tri Dharma of Higher Education, especially in the Covid-19 era. To the staff and students, keep the spirit of maintaining a good education system and administrative system. We also hope that the progress of the rector's work program is currently supported by the Council of Professors and teaching staff to advance USU," he said. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - PR

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara