MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Medicine
Specialist-1 Program In Obstetrics And Gynecology
Spesialist-1 Program
Obstetrics and Gynecology
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Specialist Program in Obstetrics and Gynecology of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) studies the science and art of pregnancy preparation or those related to midwifery, encompassing fetomaternal, fertility, and gynecology. With an accreditation of Very Good (A), this study program is one of the best midwifery education institutions in North Sumatra.

Staffed with qualified and dedicated education personnel to advance students' hopes to become expert midwives and health workers who prioritize skills, knowledge, good ethics, and empathy in order to improve the health of children and pregnant women in Indonesia and globally. Students who have completed this study program will hold the Obstetrics and Gynecology Specialist (Sp.O.G.) degree.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

obgin@usu.ac.id

Specialist-1 Program in Obstetrics and Gynecology

Accredited Excellent

No. 0839/LAM-PTKes/Akr/Spe/XI/2023

Vision of Specialist-1 Program in Obstetrics and Gynecology

To become an institution that organizes Obstetrics and Gynecology Specialist Doctor education with BINTANG values (Devoted to Almighty God, Innovative, Resilient and Wise) towards a center of excellence in the fields of reproductive health and preventive oncology by the year 2025 in Southeast Asia.

Mission of Specialist-1 Program in Obstetrics and Gynecology

Education

To organize consistent, quality education that keeps up with advancements in medical knowledge and technology with good organizational management and quality assurance system, particularly in the fields of Women's Reproductive Health and Preventive Oncology.

Research

To organize quality research in accordance with good research practices and clinical trials, following national standards in the field of Obstetrics and Gynecology, particularly in the fields of Women's Reproductive Health and Preventive Oncology.

Community Service

To organize the application of knowledge in the field of Obstetrics and Gynecology, particularly in the fields of Women's Reproductive Health and Preventive Oncology., through community service activities.

Facilities and Infrastructure

To enhance and complete facilities and infrastructure that strengthen the learning, research, and community service processes, particularly in the fields of Women's Reproductive Health and Preventive Oncology.

Cooperation

To establish cooperation in the fields of education and research with other research institutions, both domestic and international, particularly in the fields of Women's Reproductive Health and Preventive Oncology.

Produce Capable Graduates

To produce graduates capable of actively contributing to improving women's well-being during the pre-menarche, reproductive, and menopausal stages, reducing Maternal and Infant Mortality Rates, and other national programs.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Fetomaternal

Reproductive Endocrinology and Fertility

Gynecologic Oncology

Reconstructive Urogynecology

Social Obstetrics and Gynecology

Contact Us
Specialist-1 Program in Obstetrics and Gynecology
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jln. Cardiac Center, Gedung Paviliun Lt. 1 RSUP H. Adam Malik

(061) - 8363760

obgin@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara