MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
FEB Management Students Take Advantage On Virtual Exhibitions To Market Products
FEB Management Students Take Advantage on Virtual Exhibitions to Market Products
Published At
14 July 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
FEB Management Students Take Advantage on Virtual Exhibitions to Market Products
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 14 July 2021

MEDAN - USU Public Relations: S1 Management Study Program, Faculty of Economics and Business, Universitas Sumatera Utara (FEB USU) held a Virtual Exhibition of Product Launching for Entrepreneurship Practice Students. This is one of the pilot projects in Independent Learning for Independent Campus policy (MBKM) initiated by USU.

USU Chancellor Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos, M.Si, in his remarks said that this exhibition was a form of implementation of USU's partnership in the world of business and industry.

"This exhibition of student products from the management study program is a form of pilot project in the Independent Learning Program-Independent Campus with the business world and the industrial world, in this case with Everidea Education and PT Paragon," said the USU Chancellor.

Heemphasized that the exhibition implies USU's readiness to organize the Independent Learning Program-Independent Campus."This event is also an opening that USU is ready to hold the Independent Learning-Independent Campus Policy which will be held in the odd semester of 2021-2022.I hope it can be a motivation and stimulus for students who take this course,” he added.

The exhibition of creativity products from the Management Study Program itself is also the result of thecollaboration betweenUSU FEB and Everidea Education and PT Paragon.This form ofcooperationis realized by providing assistance to students.

The Dean of FEB USU, Dr. Fadli, SE, M.Si, appreciated the implementation of this activity.Hewelcomes the partnership that has been established with the two institutions and hopes to create students who are ready for the business and industry worlds.

“I really appreciate this partnership relationship.As an initial step, the USU FEB Management Study Program Student Product Launching Virtual Exhibition has been carried out.I am sure that this eventwillcreate graduates who can compete in the industrial world,” said Fadli.

Doli Muhammad Jafar Dalimunthe, SE, M.Si, Vice Dean II FEB USU, who is a lecturer in the course of entrepreneurship practice, said that the event provided an extraordinary experience for students.

“The presence of Everidea Education and PT Paragon who are companions for student entrepreneurship practice courses can gain insight and best practice for young people who offer business concepts and business experiences.Until finally, the products from students will be launched at the Virtual Expo event," Doli said.

Doli also said that this virtual product exhibition was the first time held at USU, which was expected to provide broad knowledge to the academic community in the world of entrepreneurship.

“Virtual Expo is also something very extraordinary because it is the first time it has been held at the Universitas Sumatera Utara.It is hoped that it can become knowledge and understanding as well as new experiences for the academic community.This Virtual Expo is a very extraordinary eventto introduce products directly to the market, in this case the virtual or digital market,” he concluded.

In the virtual exhibition itself, there are at least 40 types of products on display.The products on display came from various categories, such as the culinary category, healthy consumption products, creativity products, to offering services.All of these products are exhibited virtually in an exhibition room which can be accessed through thehttps://university.pemimpin.id/page.

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: - - -

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara