MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Engineer Inauguration, Rector Of USU Encourages Contribution To National Development
Engineer Inauguration, Rector of USU Encourages Contribution to National Development
Published At
04 March 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Engineer Inauguration, Rector of USU Encourages Contribution to National Development
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 04 March 2022

"Infrastructure development that is being intensively carried out by the Government, as well as personal work that requires your services and expertise, has a great job risk and opens up opportunities for discrepancies in the results with something that has been planned and targeted previously," said the Rector of USU.

MEDAN-PR OF USU: Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held an Engineer Inauguration Class VII of the Engineering Professional Education Study Program (PS-PPI) of the USU Faculty of Engineering, which was held online on Wednesday (2/3/2022). The inauguration was held for students of class VII.

In his remarks, the Rector of USU, Dr Muryanto Amin, S Sos, and M Si, encouraged the newly inaugurated engineers to give maximum contribution to the nation's development. Engineer expertise is needed, considering that Indonesia is currently intensively developing infrastructure.

"The government intensively carries out infrastructure development. It requires your services and expertise, even if it has a high job risk and opens up opportunities for discrepancies in the results with something planned and targeted previously," said the Rector of USU.

He said that this inauguration would increase USU's existence and public trust, especially in the Engineer Education Study Program. Engineers are expected to compete and demonstrate their scientific quality in the future.

"Through the inauguration carried out today, I think the steps of the USU Engineer Professional Education Study Program will be more evident. It is in realizing its desire to become an Engineering Study Program that is superior and globally competitive in the quality of science and professional engineering skills as its vision," he said.

In connection with this, he hopes that the graduates will maintain the alma mater's name and work sincerely. An engineer must minimize small mistakes, considering the engineering profession is high-risk. “The slightest mistake will impact your professional and personal reputation. Besides the institution's reputation, where the scholar and professional status is obtained. So, make this condition a common awareness of the engineers who will be inaugurated and the alums who will leave this beloved USU to do all the work seriously. Undoubtedly, both of them will get a good reputation and recognition from the public," he explained.

The secretary of the Indonesian Engineers Association, Ir Bambang Goeritno, M Sc, IPU, explained that the professional development of engineers will continue. As a result, his party is increasingly expanding universities to organize professional engineering education. "At least 40 universities have been permitted to open Professional Engineer Study Programs since April 11, 2016. It has increased the number of graduates as of September 2021 to 10,267 people," he said.

He hopes that the inaugurated engineers can contribute to solving the current problems. Today's development provides various challenges, and it takes skill to complete them.

“The challenges of engineering today are increasingly diverse and difficult. Engineers face today's digitalization and automation challenges. On the other hand, engineers must be able to adapt to energy transitions. More broadly, engineers are expected to be able to create infrastructure that can withstand global climate change," said Bambang.

Since PSPPI was established at USU on 10 February 2017, it has produced 226 graduates in 7 batches. This number includes 42 engineers of class 7 who were inaugurated on this occasion. Meanwhile, for Class 8, which is currently undergoing lectures in Semester B of the 2021/2022 academic year, there are 65 participants. (RR)

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Humas - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara