MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
LAM-PTKes Field Assessment Of USU Tropical Medicine Study Program
LAM-PTKes Field Assessment of USU Tropical Medicine Study Program
Published At
28 October 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
LAM-PTKes Field Assessment of USU Tropical Medicine Study Program
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 28 October 2022

“Coordination channels must be considered as a medium for exchanging information between the academic community so that we can go through the accreditation process well and smoothly,” said the rector.

USU PR - LAM-PTKes held an offline field assessment of the Master of Tropical Medicine Study Program at the Faculty of Medicine (FK), Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU). The activity took place at FK USU on Thursday, (27/10/2022).

USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si. in his speech said that the collaboration and cooperation of all parties, not only at the leadership level, is important in the success of the accreditation of the Tropical Medicine Study Program.

The Rector hopes that the implementation of this accreditation will place the FK USU Master Program in Tropical Medicine in a new class that is growing rapidly compared to before, so as to make a significant contribution in fulfilling KPIs and criteria in other university ranking institutions.

“The coordination channel must be considered as a medium for exchanging information between the academic community so that we can go through the accreditation process well and smoothly,” he concluded.

The USU Rector also hopes that the implementation of this accreditation will place the Master Program in Tropical Medicine, Faculty of Medicine USU in a new class that is growing rapidly compared to before, so as to make a significant contribution in fulfilling the KPIs and criteria in other university ranking institutions.

“I pray that this activity can be carried out well and smoothly and produce the desired results as a result of the hard work and dedication that you do to USU,” said the USU Rector.

In line with this, the Dean of FK USU, Prof. Dr. dr. Aldy Safruddin Rambe, Sp S (K) said that in this series of offline assessments, he could get a lot of input and suggestions to improve the master of tropical medicine study program to be even more advanced in the future.

“We hope that with this assessment, this study program (Master Program in Tropical Medicine) will be better,” he said.

On the same occasion, one of the assessor team, Dr. Drs. Kusmardi, M.Sc., explained that in this accreditation, there will be 3 assessments, namely the adequacy assessment that has been uploaded to LAM-PTKes, then online assessment, and finally, offline assessment, for offline assessment starts from seeing the facilities in the master's department directly.

“I see that the facilities in this department are quite adequate, and USU is one of the best universities,” said one of the assessor team members.

According to Dr. Kusmardi, the FK USU Tropical Medicine Master Program is quite good, starting from the fulfillment of a safe and comfortable room and adequate laboratory space. USU itself has prepared everything as well as possible, following the PDDikti rules.

“So far, USU has also collaborated a lot both nationally and internationally, so we will see the MoU letters whether they are still valid or have been updated,” he said.

For information, the assessment will last for two days until Friday (28/10/2022).

 

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Public Relations

Interviewee: Dr. Muryanto Amin - USU Rector

Photographer: Muhammad Andriansyah - Public Relations 

News
SDGs 4
SDGs 3
SDGs 17
Management
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara