MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Mathematics And Natural Sciences
Doctoral Program In Biological Science
Doctoral Program
Biological Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

As the unit responsible for the highest level of education in the field of biological sciences, the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Doctoral Program in Biological Sciences has a focus on the fields of industrial biology, the environment, and natural resource conservation.

The Doctoral Program in Biological Sciences has 4 main curricula: ecology, microbiology, plant structure/function, and animal structure/function. With the assistance of an outstanding lineup of insightful lecturers and with the support of the best facilities, our study program is able to create an effective, efficient, and interactive academic atmosphere. The Doctoral Program in Biological Sciences is strongly committed to producing graduates who are superior, qualified, and globally competitive in the fields of industrial biology, environment, and natural resource conservation.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

doktorbiologi@usu.ac.id

Doctoral Program in Biological Science

Accredited Unggul

002/SK/LAMSAMA/Akred/D/II/2023

Vision of Doctoral Program in Biological Science

Becoming a Doctoral Study Program in Biological Sciences that produces graduates who are able to take a multi-transdisciplinary approach so that they can compete at the global level in the fields of industry, environment, and natural resource conservation.

Mission of Doctoral Program in Biological Science

Quality

Organizing quality education (capable of taking a multi-transdisciplinary approach) to produce graduates who are superior and regionally competitive in the fields of industrial biology, the environment, and natural resource conservation.

Research

Carry out and develop research, community service and excellent scientific work in the fields of industry, environment and preservation of natural resources.

Public Service

Carrying out community service based on the development of biological science and research results that can be applied directly to the user community.

Collaboration

Implement and establish cooperation with organizations, government and private institutions as well as domestic and foreign industries, in the context of developing and applying biology for the welfare of society.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Plant Structure and Function

Animal Structure and Function

Ecology

Microbiology

Contact Us
Doctoral Program in Biological Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Bioteknologi No.1 Kampus USU, Padang Bulan, Medan Baru - 20155

(+62) - 618223564

doktorbiologi@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara