MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Vice-Rector V Of USU Evaluates Performance Approaching Year-
Vice-Rector V of USU Evaluates Performance Approaching Year-
Published At
11 October 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Vice-Rector V of USU Evaluates Performance Approaching Year-
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 11 October 2023

To all sections in the field of asset management and business to evaluate and monitor all plans made. Both in the fields of asset planning, business, and security. Especially for monitoring budget absorption. We must ensure the budget is appropriate, effective, efficient, and sustainable," said Vice-Rector(VR) V USU

USU PR- Vice-Rector (VR) V for Asset and Business Management of the Universitas Sumatera Utara(USU) Ir. Luhut Sihombing, MP., and all work units under him are committed to improving performance both in the field of asset and business management as well as in the security section. He conveyed this at a routine morning ceremony at the USU Central Bureau of Administration Building on Monday (02/10/2023).

"To all sections in the field of asset management and business to evaluate and monitor all plans made. Both in the fields of asset planning, business, and security. Especially for monitoring budget absorption. We must ensure the budget is appropriate, effective, efficient, and sustainable.

We only have three months to monitor everything and to make action plans to resolve them. So that at the end of the year, we can get a good asset and business management rating," said Ir. Luhut Sihombing, MP.

Furthermore, Ir. Luhut Sihombing, MP., highlighted the importance of security in the organization of the university. In addition to securing internally, Ir. Luhut Sihombing, MP., also asked the security department to ensure the external part, namely activities in front of the campus, is clean from commercial activities—furthermore, Ir. Luhut Sihombing, MP, also said that a precise and communicated monitoring mechanism should be established.

"In the security field, we should secure internally and externally. I see significant developments in activities in front of the campus. I request the head of the security department to ensure that activities in front of the campus and the hospital are free from commercial activities. Because this is the face of the university, please establish a mechanism for monitoring these activities. Like others, it should be communicated to all vendors in front to ensure they occupy spaces appropriate to the corridor," expressed Ir. Luhut Sihombing, MP.

Ir. Luhut Sihombing, MP, said that all work programs that have been planned will be monitored and evaluated so that actions can be taken in accordance with the action plan or responses to activities that have not been implemented.

“We have now entered October. "Yes, just reminding all the work programs that have been planned, the action plans so that they are monitored, whether they have been implemented or whether there is anything that has not been implemented so that action can be taken for action plans or responses to activities that have not been implemented," said Ir. Luhut Sihombing, MP.

Lastly, Ir. Luhut Sihombing, MP, hopes that all planned programs can be implemented well following the objectives that have been set and the budget that has been provided.

"The first hope is that from the budget absorption, everything we have planned, all work programs, action plans, can all be implemented well in accordance with the objectives, namely the programs that have been funded. "Secondly, ensure that all the budgets that have been obtained have indeed targeted all the needs of our academic activities to be able to achieve the level of work required in the regulations," hoped Ir. Luhut Sihombing, MP.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Management
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara