MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Inaugurating USU Psychology Sky Cross, Chancellor: We Make Dreams Come True
Inaugurating USU Psychology Sky Cross, Chancellor: We Make Dreams Come True
Published At
18 February 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Inaugurating USU Psychology Sky Cross, Chancellor: We Make Dreams Come True
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 18 February 2022

According to the Chancellor of USU, the realization of infrastructure improvement is also the dream of all USU academics. Making improvements to infrastructure means realizing that dream. Of course, with this development, it is hoped that it will motivate the academic community in their activities.

USU'S PRIVATE MEDAN: The Chancellor of the University of North Sumatra (USU) Dr Muryanto Amin, S Sos, M Si, said that he was committed to realizing the dreams of the USU academic community. This dream is related to the development of supporting infrastructure within USU. Most recently, the Chancellor of USU inaugurated the Sky Cross at the USU Faculty of Psychology, Thursday (17/2/2022).

Muryanto Amin said that his commitment after being appointed rector was to make improvements and rejuvenation within USU. As one of the leading universities, infrastructure is important to pay attention to. In addition to supporting the comfort of the academic community, it also shows the aesthetics of an institution, according to him.

“My commitment after being inaugurated was to carry out renovations and rejuvenation within USU. Because when I visited all faculties, I saw a lot that we had to fix. Some of them even need immediate repairs," said Muryanto Amin.

According to him, the realization of infrastructure improvement is also the dream of all USU academics. Making improvements to infrastructure means realizing that dream. But, of course, with this development, it is hoped to motivate the academic community in their activities.

“During the visit to the faculty, we immediately set a development priority scale. At least we prioritize the construction of laboratories, both in FMIPA and Pharmacy. In addition, we also realize development in Psychology. In the future, we will continue to do this development," said the USU Chancellor.

He also mentioned that many infrastructures have been improved, such as the construction of green parks, rejuvenating toilets, parking lots, and so on. According to him, the strategy of managing the budget is the key to realizing infrastructure improvement.

“Refocusing the budget is the key for us to be able to carry out development. We must organize and determine the scale of development priorities. So we hope that all academics can feel it. Especially this psychology is at the front, right on Dr Mansyur's road," he said.

He added that USU was collaborating with the Medan City Government to rejuvenate in the Dr Mansyur area. He informed that the Dr Mansyur road area would be widened. Likewise, USU will carry out a series of developments, such as the revitalization of the USU Central Administration Bureau and the construction of the USU Sports Center.

On the same occasion, the Dean of the Faculty of Psychology, Zulkarnain, Ph.D, a Psychologist, expressed his gratitude for the construction of the Sky Cross. He said that the construction had been proposed since 2018 and had only been realized at this time. This development was welcomed by the entire academic community of the Faculty of Psychology.

“With the Sky Cross, it is easier to move from building A to building B. So far, you have to go down first. If the students are still young, they have a lot of energy. But the lecturers here are dominated by 50 years and over, it's hard to go up and downstairs,” he said with a laugh.

Zulkarnain also said that the construction of the Sky Cross also supports student activities who often carry out extracurricular activities after the learning process. Sky Cross makes it easier for them to access these activities.

Present at the meeting were Vice-Rector V Ir Luhut Sihombing, MP, Secretary of the University Prof. Dr.dr. Muhammad Fidel Ganis Siregar, M.Ked(OG), Sp.OG (K), the deputy deans, lecturers, and education staff at the USU Faculty of Psychology. (RR)

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara