MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Excellent Research
Coffee Dregs: Biodiesel Energy Opportunities
Coffee Dregs: Biodiesel Energy Opportunities
Published At
29 May 2024
Published By
Prof. Dr. Juliati Br. Tarigan S.Si., M.Si.
Coffee Dregs: Biodiesel Energy Opportunities
 

Published by

Prof. Dr. Juliati Br. Tarigan S.Si., M.Si.

Published at

Wednesday, 29 May 2024

Coffee has long been an important commodity in the history of human civilization. It has transformed from a drink of the nobility to be consumed by all levels of society. Coffee is also often used as a medium to start negotiations, an antidote for sleepiness, and even the pride of some coffee-producing regions. It is no surprise that coffee consumption around the world is very high. However, this fact is not followed by adequate utilization of coffee grounds and waste.

Behind every cup of coffee, leftover grounds often end up in the trash. However, did you know that coffee grounds, also known as spent coffee grounds (SCG), can be used as a renewable energy source? A recent study reveals an innovative method that can convert SCG into biodiesel, offering an eco-friendly solution while reducing waste and creating renewable energy.

Starting from the increasing demand for renewable energy, a creative idea emerged from Chemist at the Universitas Sumatera Utara Indonesia, Prof. Juliati Br. Tarigan. Non-renewable fossil fuel reserves are being depleted, and environmental concerns are also increasing. Meanwhile, coffee consumption continues to grow, increasing the amount of coffee grounds produced. According to Tarigan, these grounds can be processed into a valuable energy source rather than thrown away.

“SCG requires waste treatment before disposal because it contains acids that can pollute the environment. In addition, the amount of SCG continues to increase every year because coffee is a favorite drink in the world, with a consumption of 9.5 million tons in 2016, including instant coffee, where every gram of coffee can produce 0.65-0.91 grams of SCG,” explained Prof. Juliati Br. Tarigan.

Together with Mimpin Ginting, Firman Sebayang, Eko K. Sitepu, Junedi Ginting (University of North Sumatra Indonesia), Siti Nurul Mubarokah (Islamic University of Malang), Justaman Karo-Karo (Ministry of Industry of the Republic of Indonesia), and Trung T. Nguyen (Giang University, Vietnam), this research proposes biodiesel as one of the solutions that can be used directly in diesel engines without the need for modification. However, the main challenge in biodiesel production is the high processing cost.

Their research proved that wet coffee grounds can be converted directly into biodiesel through an efficient and environmentally friendly process using the in situ transesterification method. This process involves the chemical reaction of fatty acids being converted into fatty acid methyl esters (FAME), the main component of biodiesel. The process is carefully monitored using spectroscopic techniques such as FT-IR and 1H-NMR, ensuring efficient conversion and high product quality.

Lipid extraction in a Reactive Extraction Soxhlet (RES) produces biodiesel from wet SCG biomass. RES enables efficient oil extraction from coffee grounds, even under moist conditions, which is usually a challenge in traditional extraction processes. The use of time and energy in the RES method was lower than the two-stage method (separate extraction and transesterification). The resulting SCG contains about 12% oil in its dry matter form.

“The RES method is more energy efficient, but also time efficient, as it does not require the conventional drying process that takes three days in the sun and one night using a hot air oven at 105°C,” said Prof. Juliati Br. Tarigan.

In a minimum reaction time of 30 minutes, they found that the transesterification process successfully converted the fatty acids in SCG into biodiesel efficiently. The dominance of palmitic acid and linoleic acid in the fatty acid profile of SCG makes it very suitable for biodiesel production, as these two fatty acids produce stable and fuel-efficient FAME.

According to Prof. Juliati Br. Tarigan, converting coffee grounds into biodiesel offers a solution to the abundant coffee waste and contributes to reducing carbon emissions and dependence on fossil fuels. “This is an important step towards a circular economy, where waste is converted into useful products, significantly reducing environmental impact,” she continued.

This innovation brings great hope. The journey of coffee grounds to biodiesel proves that a cup of coffee can be utilized as a clean alternative fuel. As awareness of environmental and sustainability issues increases, innovations like this will be increasingly important in creating a greener future.

SDGs
SDGs 7
SDGs 12
Paper Details
Journal
RSC Advances
Title
Direct biodiesel production from wet spent coffee grounds
Authors
Juliati Br. Tarigan, Mimpin Ginting, Siti Nurul Mubarokah, Firman Sebayang, Justaman Karo-karo, Trung T. Nguyen, Junedi Ginting, Eko K. Sitepu
Author Affiliations
Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences, Universitas Sumatera Utara, Medan 20155, Indonesia. E-mail: juliati@usu.ac.id
Medical Faculty, University of Islam Malang, Malang 65144, Indonesia
Balai Riset dan Standarisasi Industri, Kementerian Perindustrian, Medan 20214, Indonesia
Department of Food Technology, An Giang University, Long Xuyen City, Vietnam
Department of Medical Biotechnology, Flinders University, Bedford Park 5043, Adelaid, South Australia
Department of Physics, Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences, Universitas Sumatera Utara, Medan 20155, Indonesia
DOI
https://doi.org/10.1039/C9RA08038D
Find More Articles
Research Articles
The Impact of Illustrated Modules in Combating Stunting on Nias
Research Articles
Green Innovation Practices in Palm Oil Refineries
Research Articles
Guardians in Silence: A Deep Dive into the Work of UN Interpreters

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara