MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Inaugurates Three Professors
USU Inaugurates Three Professors
Published At
27 July 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Inaugurates Three Professors
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 27 July 2023

As the university leader, I express my appreciation for the three permanent university professors who were inaugurated today. This inauguration is also a form of improving the quality and reputation of the university regarding commitment, "said Prof. Muryanto.

USU PR - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) inaugurated three professors, which took place at the USU Auditorium Friday (07/14/2023).

The three professors who were inaugurated directly by USU Rector Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin S.Sos., M.Si. include Prof. Dr. Poltak Sihombing M.Kom. from the Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology, Prof. Dr. Diana Sofia Hanafiah SP., MP from the Faculty of Agriculture, and Prof. Dr. Dra. T. Thyrhaya Zein M.A. from the Faculty of Cultural Sciences.

In his speech, the USU Rector expressed his pride in the achievements of the three professors and his high appreciation for their dedication and contribution. He also reminded me that the inauguration of these professors is undoubtedly an achievement related to the university's commitment to improving quality and reputation.

"As the head of the university, I would like to express my appreciation to the three permanent professors inaugurated today. This inauguration is also a form of improving the quality and reputation of the university regarding commitment," said Prof. Muryanto.

The USU Rector emphasized the importance of the quality of learning in the university environment. Highlighting teaching and learning is one of the main pillars in achieving the mission of quality higher education. The results of the international assessment, namely the PISA indicator, show a lag in literacy, math, and science skills in Indonesia.

"In improving and achieving good quality education at the University, teaching, and learning must be implemented optimally. We refer to the indicators set by PISA related to the lag in literacy, mathematics, and science in Indonesia," said Prof. Muryanto.

The Rector explained that USU had adopted the concept of a sociopreneur university, which places innovation and extensive networking as the primary foundation for solving social problems through education. He argued that universities must be active agents of change in improving the quality of learning.

USU's tagline 'Transformation Towards the Ultimate' strengthens its reputation as an academic center dedicated to producing high-quality research and education. According to the USU Rector, the university has a principle to support progress and innovation in the development of research and teaching in various fields of science. It also affirms its commitment to improving the relevance of education in Indonesia.

One of the inaugurated USU Professors, Prof. Dr. Dra. T. Thyrhaya Zein M.A admitted that the process of becoming a professor certainly has a long series of journeys by upholding Tri Dharma, writing articles that compete in international journals, and conducting collaborative research to fulfill the indicators of becoming a Professor.

"The stages passed in achieving a professor is indeed not separated from Tri Dharma. From the beginning, we have prepared a collection of articles, international journals, and collaborative research. Then through the stages of data collection, to process it until finally the inauguration is achieved, "said Prof. Thyrhaya.

With this inauguration, it is hoped that these three new professors will be even more inspired and motivated to continue contributing to advancing knowledge and improving the quality of the university in the national and international realms.

For information, Prof. Dr. Poltak Sihombing M.Kom. from the Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology became a Permanent Professor in the Computer Sector, delivering an inaugural speech entitled "Microcontrollers for Accelerating Digital Transformation in Emerging Technology".

Then, Prof. Dr. Diana Sofia Hanafiah SP, MP from the Faculty of Agriculture, became a Permanent Professor in Cytogenetics, delivering an inaugural speech entitled "Increasing Plant Genetic Diversity in Obtaining Superior Plants Towards Sustainable Agriculture".

Then, Prof. Dr. Dra. T. Thyrhaya Zein, M.A. from the Faculty of Cultural Sciences, became a Permanent Professor in the Field of Discourse Analysis, delivering an inaugural speech entitled "Representation of Poverty in Indonesia in Internet Discourse: A Corpus Linguistic Analysis.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara