MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Rector Discusses Challenges And 2025 Education Policy During Working Visit To FMIPA
USU Rector Discusses Challenges and 2025 Education Policy during Working Visit to FMIPA
Published At
11 March 2025
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Rector Discusses Challenges and 2025 Education Policy during Working Visit to FMIPA
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 11 March 2025

“The increase in research funds is expected to encourage more scientific journal publications and research innovations that can increase USU's competitiveness at the national and international levels,” said Prof. Muryanto.

 

Public Relations USU - The Rector of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., again conducted a working visit as a routine agenda at the beginning of the year. This time, Prof. Muryanto visited the Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences (FMIPA) on Monday (10/03/2025) in the FMIPA USU hall and aimed to discuss various challenges and directions of higher education policy in 2025.

 

On this occasion, Prof. Muryanto highlighted various problems the Ministry of Education, Culture, Research, and Technology (Kemendiktiristek) faced, including the change of ministers after four months of the first term and the shocking efficiency.

 

Furthermore, Prof. Muryanto revealed plans for a curriculum decentralization policy by 2025. This policy gives each study program the authority to design a more personalized curriculum that is in accordance with student needs and industry demands. The hope is that this adaptive curriculum can open up opportunities for collaboration with stakeholders so that the wider community more quickly recognizes it.

 

In addition to the curriculum policy, Prof. Muryanto highlighted the increase in research funding, which is expected to encourage more scientific journal publications and research innovations. This increase is in line with the focus on increasing the number of doctors in various fields to increase USU's competitiveness at the national and international levels.

 

“The increase in research funds is expected to encourage more scientific journal publications and research innovations that can increase USU's competitiveness at the national and international levels,” said Prof. Muryanto.

 

Meanwhile, the Dean of FMIPA USU, Prof. Dr. Nursahara Pasaribu, M.Sc., said that although some of the Main Performance Indicators (KPI) targets had been achieved, some were still not met. She emphasized that FMIPA will continue to focus on research and Scopus-indexed publications.

 

However, Prof. Nursahara also acknowledged concerns about community service contribution, which is still considered lacking at the local and national levels. For this reason, Prof. Nursahara plans to increase community service programs to strengthen FMIPA's role in supporting USU's vision and mission.

 

“Currently, the research and publication results of FMIPA USU are very good, but the contribution of community service still needs to be improved locally and nationally,” said Prof. Nursahara.

 

Prof. Nursahara also highlighted that this working visit activity is important for direct communication between university leaders and faculties. According to him, this communication is needed to realize strategic targets in 2025, especially in improving the quality of education, research, and community service.

News
SDGs 4
SDGs
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara