MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Engineering
Undergraduate Program In Architecture
Undergraduate Program
Architecture
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Undergraduate Program in Architecture has been established since 1991, making it a relatively new study program when compared to other study programs at USU. The curriculum combines art, science and engineering to design and build physical environments that involve creating beautiful, functional and sustainable spaces for people to live, work and play. From building houses to designing iconic buildings, architecture is about creating the world around us.

The vision of this study program is to become an architecture education institution with international standards, characterized by local excellence, and leading in Southeast Asia in 2024. Graduates of the Undergraduate Program in Architecture have broad job prospects in various sectors such as interior design, construction, building conservation, project management, or even becoming freelance architects. Join Universitas Sumatera Utara Undergraduate Program in Architecture to jointly inspire positive change, create architectural innovations, and build the future of Indonesia. Students who complete this study program will earn a Bachelor of Architecture (S.Ars) degree and are ready to contribute to the world of architecture with their expertise and knowledge.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

arsitektur@usu.ac.id

Undergraduate Program in Architecture

Accredited Unggul

4376/SK/BAN-PT/Akred-PMT/S/VII/2022

Vision of Undergraduate Program in Architecture

To become an architecture education institution with international standards and local excellence that responds appropriately to the needs of the environment and community.

Mission of Undergraduate Program in Architecture

BINTANG

To provide architectural education characterized by local knowledge with BINTANG character (Devoted to God Almighty; Innovative with integrity; and Tough and Arif).

Innovative Education

Enhance an innovative educational atmosphere to create a world-class learning process.

Research

To organize local wisdom-based architectural research that is integrated and synergistic with learning activities.

Community Service

To organize community service activities that are integrated and synergistic with learning activities.

Collaborations

Establish collaboration with the government, fellow study programs, industry, the business world, non-governmental organizations, professional organizations, and related institutions, in the fields of education, research, and community service at the national and international levels.

Management System

To organize the management of learning systems and administration of architectural education institutions based on world-class information systems and technology.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Architectural Design

Building Technology

History, Theory, and Criticism of Architecture

Landscape Architecture and Environmental Design

Urban Planning, Housing, and Urban Design

Computational Architecture

Contact Us
Undergraduate Program in Architecture
Universitas Sumatera Utara

J07 Building, Jl. Perpustakaan, USU Padang Bulan Campus, Medan Baru, Medan City, North Sumatra, 20155

(+62) - 618211236

arsitektur@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara