MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
FKG USU-Unilever Indonesia Promotes Free Dental Care
FKG USU-Unilever Indonesia Promotes Free Dental Care
Published At
20 February 2024
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
FKG USU-Unilever Indonesia Promotes Free Dental Care
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 20 February 2024

“We pray that the dental treatment carried out by FKG USU can provide assurance of better oral health, welcoming Ramadan Karim,” said Vice Rector 1.”

USU PR - The Faculty of Dentistry of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) intensifies education related to dental and oral care from an early age through the activities of Senyum Sehat Indonesia Welcoming the Holy Month of Ramadan 1445 H. The activity took place at the USU Faculty of Dentistry on Monday-Tuesday (19-20/02/2024).

This is the first time the activity has been included in the official agenda and implemented by the USU Faculty of Dentistry. In this activity, free education will be held for schools, Islamic boarding schools and ma'had. There will also be tooth brushing activities with students, as well as Free Dental Treatment aimed at students and teachers.

USU Vice Rector I for Academic, Student Affairs, and Alumni Affairs Dr. Edy Ikhsan, S.H., M.A., stated that in welcoming the Holy Month of Ramadan 1445 H which is in sight, Muslims will carry out fasting for one full month, so they must really pay attention to oral health to avoid disturbances that hinder fasting.

“We pray that the dental treatment carried out by FKG USU can provide a guarantee of better oral health, welcoming Ramadan Karim,” said Dr. Edy.

The Vice Rector I explained that this activity is a real effort of the USU Faculty of Dentistry in reducing the number of patients with oral health problems in the community, through educational activities to various elements of society, socialization in community service activities, and finding new innovations in efforts to deal with oral health problems.

“I really appreciate all the performance carried out as a dedication to humanity that cannot be compared with any material,” said Dr. Edy.

Dean of FKG, Dr. drg. Essie Octiara Sp.KGA, Subs.PKOA(K) explained that this activity was an implementation of collaboration with Unilever Indonesia to provide free dental care. There are also cooperation partners, involving the Darul Arafat Foundation Pesantren and Mahad Abu Ubaidah. Furthermore, there will be joint toothbrushing activities and dental health counseling which will involve 500 students from both cooperation partners.

“Hopefully, this will become a role model activity, and next year, it will still be carried out before the month of Ramadan, free dental care for students in Medan and other cities,” hoped Dr. Essie.

Director of USU Dental and Oral Hospital, drg. Siti Salmiah Sp.KGA.Subsp.KKA (K), explained that RSGM USU has prepared 84 dental units, which are used to carry out treatment for santri children. Then they also provide support for the implementation of joint tooth brushing activities and other counseling activities.

Ratu Mirah Afifah, Head of Professional Marketing Personal Care at Unilever Indonesia, emphasized that healthy teeth and mouth are one of the keys to a healthy and productive life, especially before the month of Ramadan. She also presented dental health data in Indonesia. Only 2.8% have brushed their teeth at the right time, and only 10% visit the dentist regularly every six months.

“Therefore, we want to contribute through cooperation to continue to provide positive benefits to the people in Indonesia, especially in Medan City,” explained Ratu.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Public Relations

Interviewee: Dr. Edy Ikhsan - Vice Rector 1 USU

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Public Relations 

News
SDGs
SDGs 3
SDGs 16
Collaboration
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara