MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Inaugurates Four Permanent Professors
USU Inaugurates Four Permanent Professors
Published At
14 February 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Inaugurates Four Permanent Professors
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 14 February 2023

Tuesday (31/01/2023), Universitas Sumatera Utara conducted a ceremonial inauguration of four professors at the USU Student Center. Prof. Dr. Mashita Dewi Sari, M.Ked (Oph)., Sp.M (K) from the Faculty of Medicine, Prof. Dr. Drs. Perdinan Sinuhaji, MS from the Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences USU, Prof. Dr. Eng. Rondang Tambun, ST, MT. from the Faculty of Engineering, and Prof. Dr. Drs. Mulyadi, M.Hum from the Faculty of Cultural Sciences are the four newly appointed professors.

In his remarks, USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., emphasized the importance of human life at a critical moment in civilization. One of them is the PISA-based learning problem that has afflicted Indonesia for the past 20 years. He believes that improvements are required to catch up with Indonesia.

"According to the test results, there has been no major improvement in the last 10-20 years, and 70% of our 15-year-old students are below the minimal reading and math ability. This crisis requires extraordinary solutions to catch up with us, " stated Muryanto Amin.

According to the Rector, universities worldwide have been administered with the concept of a sociopreneur university, which promotes innovation and broad networks in solving human-related problems. As a result, USU, with the slogan Transformation Towards the Ultimate, is implementing significant adjustments. All parties, according to the Rector, must contribute to this mission. The involvement of the Council of Professors, in particular, to actively promote faculty quality through collaborative research and publishing.

"Professors' contributions accelerate USU's transformation, play an important role in fulfilling the performance of research, community service, publications, and innovation, as well as its benefits for the development of SDGs and the world of international standards," he added.

USU currently has 144 active professors. USU will continue to seek to enhance this figure to help Indonesia overcome the issue. Furthermore, USU will establish Sociopreneur University.

"Universitas Sumatera Utara now has 144 active professors. Of course, this figure is neither perfect nor proportional to achieving the commitment of tri dharma services in higher education that satisfy the norms. As a result, Universitas Sumatera Utara continues to seek to increase the number of professors as part of its commitment to resolving the crisis in Indonesia and implementing a sociopreneur university at Universitas Sumatera Utara, " the Rector stated

The way to become a professor is undoubtedly challenging. Prof. Dr. Mulyadi, M.Hum, one of the recently appointed USU Professors, stated that lecturers eligible to become professors must have published papers in Scopus-indexed International Publications.

In addition to these basic qualifications, the Permanent Professor of Indonesian Semantics, who made an inaugural lecture titled "Semantics of Indonesian Emotional Verbs," stated that there were requirements such as service, research, and teaching.

"For the Professor process, there is a Scopus-indexed international journal publication, especially in Q-3. That is the main requirement to be proposed as a Professor," explained Prof. Mulyadi.

While Professor from FMIPA, Prof. Dr. Drs. Perdinan Sinuhaji MS, said many articles compete in international journals to become a Professor. Inaugurated as a Professor at 63, Prof. Dr. Drs. Perdinan Sinuhaji MS admitted that he was pleased about this achievement.

Prof. Dr. Drs Perdinan Sinuhjaji MS became a Professor of Material Physics by presenting an inaugural speech entitled "Synthesis and Characterization of Nanpadsorbents: Chitosan/Magnetic Fe3O4/Banana Peel Activated Carbon for Polluted Water Remediation".

"I am delighted because I have become a Professor of FMIPA USU. There are many articles that we can compete in the international and reputable world," said Prof. Perdinan.

For information, Prof. Dr. dr. Mashita Dewi Sari, M.Ked (Oph)., Sp.M (K) from FK USU became a Permanent Professor of Eye Health Sciences and delivered an inaugural speech titled "The Development and Challenges of Glaucoma Management in Improving the Quality of Life of Glaucoma Patients," followed by Prof. Dr. Eng. Rondang Tambun, ST, MT. from the Faculty of Engineering becoming a Professor

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Management
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara