MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Rector Attends Panel Discussion With Commission X DPR-RI
USU Rector Attends Panel Discussion with Commission X DPR-RI
Published At
28 November 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Rector Attends Panel Discussion with Commission X DPR-RI
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 28 November 2023

The main focus of the independent learning program is the students, students, and students," he said.

USU PR- The Rector of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., attended a panel discussion titled "Improving the Quality of Education through the Independent Learning Program" with the Indonesian Parliament Commission X at the Four Points Hotel in Medan on Monday (11/13/2023).

In this event, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., was one of the speakers in the material presentation session.

The Head of the North Sumatra Teacher Mobilization Office, Dr. Joko Ahmad Julifan, M.Si., stated that the Independent Learning Program aims to expand the space for students to be creative and expressive. The independent learning program's main focus is to meet students' needs, which is the precursor to the creation of the Independent Curriculum.

"The main focus of the independent learning program is the students, students, and students," he said.

The Head of the North Sumatra Education Office Branch, Drs. Agus Sinaga, M.Pd., expressed that to produce intelligent and character-filled students, teachers as learning leaders must be able to educate, teach, guide, direct, and evaluate. He hoped that with this activity and other training workshops, especially for teacher mobilizers, teachers could become impactful leaders in the field of education with a new mindset.

"We hope to be able to change the mindset of a leading teacher who becomes a great leader in the world of education," he hoped.

Deputy Chairman of the Indonesian Parliament Commission X, Dr. Sofyan Tan, as the keynote speaker, also said that the teacher is the central figure in the mission to improve education in Indonesia. He added that the completeness of facilities and infrastructure in teaching is also important.

"The teacher is a central figure in improving our education in Indonesia," he said.

Representing the Head of the Human Resources Development Agency (BPSDM), Suryadi, M. Pd., explained that the curriculum should change according to the times. With the current technological advancements, the independent curriculum is created so that students can be more free to adjust to their needs and strengths.

"We facilitate them to enjoy technology in a more positive direction, towards meeting their needs in living their lives," he explained.

In the same opportunity, Suryadi, M. Pd., hoped that an improvement in morality accompanies the development of students. Students can use the knowledge they acquire for positive things if they have good morals.

"If their morals are good, they will use their knowledge in a positive direction," he said.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Management
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara