MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Launches New Website And Digital Administration Service
USU Launches New Website and Digital Administration Service
Published At
02 August 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Launches New Website and Digital Administration Service
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 02 August 2021

USU PUBLIC RELATION-MEDAN : In order to realize faster and better information and administrative services, the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) launched or inaugurated the new format USU website, which was also juxtaposed with the One-Stop Application (ASA) service facility, E-Office , Agenda, tags and logos Transformation Towards the Ultimate and Whistle Blower System. The launch of the facilities and applications was carried out by the Rector of USU Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., Friday (6/25/2021), from the Academic Senate Room of the 3rd floor of the USU Central Administrative Bureau Building and also broadcast via the zoom application.

The Rector of USU in his speech stated that the inauguration of the facilities and service applications was held in line with the wishes of the University of North Sumatra to become an international standard university.This is also a breakthrough in efforts to realize bureaucratic reform by streamlining or accelerating information and administrative services and other academic interests to the entire USU academic community and the general publicin need.

"USU website, which we are now officially using, is a new form of USU's website that accommodates all information related to the various improvements that have been made by USU in various ways, as well as providing information on academic activities, leadership activities and new policies implemented at “USU," said the Rector.

Gradually, continued Muryanto Amin, this new website will be presented in two languages, namely Indonesian and English, thus enabling everyone from all over the world to access the information contained in it.Considering that English is still used today as an international language and the presentation of this English-language website is also directed as one of the efforts of USU towards the internationalization ofhigher education institutions.

“It is possible that USU website will also be developed in other language services that will reach a wider audience and access to information.We hope that the new USU website service will be able to provide the information needed by all parties regarding the development of USU," said Dr. Muryanto, optimistically.

Meanwhile, the One-Stop Application (ASA) is an application for managing correspondence to faculties that involves many parties in the submission process, verification, and the process of getting results according to the applicable SOP.Currently, there are 25 services available, namely Certificate of Value, Letter of Entitlement to Take Thesis Examination, Application for Diploma Taking, Application for Research Permit, Application for Pre-Research Permit, Application for Alumni Information, Application for Submission of Titles, Letter of Publishing Scientific Work/Journals, Invitation to Thesis Examination/Final Project, Scholarship Recommendation, Permission Not to Participate in Lectures, Study Program Accreditation, Invitation to Seminar Proposals/Research Results, Active Statement of Student Tuition for Parental Dependent Fees, Loss Application Letter, Active Student Tuition Letter, Thesis Supervisor/ Final Project, Postponement of Academic Activities (PKA), Late Payment of Tuition Fees, Active Back to Study (AKK), Proof of Submission of Thesis,Resignation, Field Work Practice (PKL), Special Examination and Proof of Submission of Thesis.

The E-Office is intended to facilitate work units at the USU in managing correspondence documents online.In addition to facilitating the management of incoming and outgoing correspondence electronically, E-Office is expected to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the management of correspondence and public services, accelerate the management of Service Manuscripts, and realize a digitalized modern bureaucracy.By using E-Office: Compact Paperless, USU leads to the service efficiencythat all parties want.

The Agenda Information System is intended to help organize activities in the Work Unit.The agenda of activities can be accessed by the leadership or certain parties who are given permission.In addition, the agenda can be displayed on the announcement monitor screen provided by the work unit.The activity agenda is also integrated with the USU website.

In addition, the facility which was also inaugurated at the University of North Sumatra is the Whistle Blower System (WBS), which is present as a forum to channel aspirations on matters related to the University of Sumatera Utara.Users of this system are the general public and USU's academic community.Aspirations related to services, facilities and infrastructure, as well as the implementation of the teaching and learning process can be conveyed through this system.USU guarantees theconfidentiality of system users.

"We all hope that all the services that have been launched can be used as well as possible for the purposes we want and help all the affairs we want to solve, and help make USU become an international standard university that prioritizes the speed and accuracy of information. of course, by sticking to local wisdom," the USU Rector said.

Present offline USU Vice Rector I Dr. Edy Ikhsan, SH, M.Hum, Vice Rector II Dr. M Arifin Nasution, S.Sos, M.Sp, Vice Rector III Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan, S.Si, M.Si, Apt, Vice Rector IV Prof. Dr. Drs. Opim Salim Sitompul, M.Sc, Vice Rector V Ir. Luhut Sihombing, MP, and USU Secretary Prof. Dr. dr. M. Fidel Ganis Siregar, M.Ked (OG), Sp.OG (K).While online, it was attended by the Deans of Faculties, Director of Postgraduate Schools, Director of USU Hospital, Director of RSGM, rector's expert staff, Head of PSI, Head of LP, Head of LPPM, Head of Libraries, Heads of Departments/Faculty Study Programs, Heads of UPT/Work Unit, the Whistle Blower System Complaint Team at the University of North Sumatra, the Head of Bureau, Head of Sections and Sub Divisions and journalists from USU's partner media.(RJ/©ULC)

Author: Renny Julia Harahap - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - PR

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara