MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Populix Introduces Online Survey Method To USU Students
Populix Introduces Online Survey Method to USU Students
Published At
25 October 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
Populix Introduces Online Survey Method to USU Students
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Friday, 25 October 2024

“We also have segmentation based on economic status, education, and employment, which allows lecturers and researchers to obtain data that suits their needs,” said Seniti.

USU PR - Populix held a socialization entitled “Transforming Research: Digital Data Collection with Populix” to Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) academics, attended by lecturers and students interested in learning more efficient and effective data collection methods in academic research. It took place via Zoom Meeting, on Thursday (17/10/2024).

 

The socialization material was presented by Seniti Prawira and Arrayyan Firdaus, a team from Populix, who explained that Populix is a research company that provides an online survey platform, connecting individuals, MSME players, startups, local and multinational companies, and academic actors from various industries with respondents throughout Indonesia.

 

“We also have segmentation based on economic status, education, and employment, which allows lecturers and researchers to obtain data that suits their needs,” said Seniti.

 

On this occasion, Seniti Prawira emphasized that respondents who participate have the opportunity to get attractive rewards, thus encouraging wider participation. She also shared demographic data showing that Populix respondents consisted of 50% women and 47% men, with the majority of respondents coming from Generation Z and Millennials.

 

“In addition, Populix has segmented by socio-economic status, with more respondents coming from the middle class. Populix also provides information related to the educational background and type of work of respondents,” explained Seniti.

 

Furthermore, Seniti Prawira explained that traditional data collection is usually done manually through paper, interviews, and observations, while digital data collection utilizes electronic devices, online surveys, and mobile applications so that it can be accessed in real-time.

 

“The advantage of digital data collection lies in the ability to access data in real-time. While the traditional data collection process takes longer and is limited by geographical location,” said Seniti.

 

Arrayyan Firdaus also introduced their product, Poplight, as a standalone survey platform that can be accessed by anyone, whether they are experienced in research or a beginner. Arrayyan explained that with just five simple steps, anyone can launch a survey on the Populix platform.

 

“Currently, Populix has become an official partner in more than 30 universities across Indonesia, including the Universitas Sumatera Utara,” said Arrayyan.

 

Arrayyan emphasized that Populix ensures the quality of respondents through the Popscore system, which is similar to the credit scoring system in banks. The respondents involved are real people, with a layered verification system that links each account to one National Identification Number (NIK) and one cellphone number.

 

“Respondents who provide inconsistent or irrelevant information will be filtered out automatically,” said Arrayyan.

 

News
SDGs 4
SDGs
SDGs 17
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara