MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
BIMTEK SILA: Accelerating Campus Digitalization Steps
BIMTEK SILA: Accelerating Campus Digitalization Steps
Published At
28 June 2024
Published By
David Kevin Handel Hutabarat
BIMTEK SILA: Accelerating Campus Digitalization Steps
 

Published by

David Kevin Handel Hutabarat

Published at

Friday, 28 June 2024

I also appreciate the hard work of USU's Directorate of Digitalization and Information Systems and USU's ULT for the creation of SILA as a new service product that will provide a new experience and satisfaction for users of administrative services at USU, who hope for the realization of excellent service to meet their needs," said Prof. Dr. dr. Muhammad Fidel Ganis Siregar, M.Ked(OG), Sp. O.G, Subsp. F.E.R.

USU PR — Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) conducted a Technical Guidance (BIMTEK) on the Administrative Service Information System (SILA) for stakeholders from each faculty and service unit at USU on Thursday (Jun. 27, 2024) in the Sisingamangaraja Room of Hotel Le Polonia.

This BIMTEK was very interesting and inspiring, featuring three speakers: the Director of USU's Digitalization and System Integration Directorate, Emerson Pascawira Sinulingga, S.T., M.Sc., Ph.D., who presented on "Digitalization and System Integration in Universitas Sumatera Utara"; the Head of USU's Bureaucratic Reform and Transformation, Dr. Nurman Achmad, S.Sos., M.Soc.Sc., who presented on "Public Services in Universitas Sumatera Utara"; and Dwi Yuda Syaputra, S.AB., who presented on "Information Systems and Administrative Services at Universitas Sumatera Utara".

The Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara, Prof. Dr. dr. Muhammad Fidel Ganis Siregar, M.Ked(OG), Sp. O.G, Subsp. F.E.R. stated that SILA is USU's latest digital-based administrative service, which will provide a new experience and satisfaction for users of administrative services at USU. This is a continuation of USU's efforts to improve the experience of administrative activities at USU, making them efficient and integrated for the entire academic community.

"I also appreciate the hard work of USU's Directorate of Digitalization and Information Systems and USU's ULT for the creation of SILA as a new service product that will provide a new experience and satisfaction for users of administrative services at USU, who hope for the realization of excellent service to meet their needs," said Prof. Dr. dr. Muhammad Fidel Ganis Siregar, M.Ked(OG), Sp. O.G, Subsp. F.E.R.

Prof. Dr. dr. Muhammad Fidel Ganis Siregar, M.Ked(OG), Sp. O.G, Subsp. F.E.R. explained that SILA is a tangible implementation of the bureaucratic reform carried out over the past three years, as its information system encompasses all USU services under the Integrated Service Unit (ULT) of USU. The commitment of USU's Rector, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., to realize fast, transparent, responsive, and sustainable digital Human Resources (HR) services is being pursued by the Directorate of Digitalization and System Integration and USU's HR Bureau through SILA, which prioritizes service speed and output accuracy based on digitalization.

"This system prioritizes service speed and output accuracy based on a digitalization system, which aims to realize the Rector's work program through the Directorate of Digitalization and System Integration together with the Human Resources Bureau, namely to create digital HR services that are fast, transparent, responsive, and sustainable. This is in line with technological developments that cut through all the conventional administrative service processes we had before," explained Prof. Dr. dr. Muhammad Fidel Ganis Siregar, M.Ked(OG), Sp. O.G, Subsp. F.E.R.

The acting head of USU's ULT office, Amalia Meutia, M.Psi., a psychologist, explained that ULT is responsible and committed to providing services and implementing previously established procedures. She said that BIMTEK could change the mindset of USU faculties and service units to gradually shift from manual to digital administrative methods so that USU's targets can be achieved more effectively.

"Of course, this event will further improve services because digital services will certainly be faster and more efficient, and at the same time, it will open the mindset of representatives from faculties and units to realize how important it is that USU has transformed to digital. So, we are gradually leaving the manual methods and switching to digital so that the university's targets and goals can be achieved more easily and quickly," explained Amalia Meutia, M.Psi., Psychologist.

The Director of USU's Digitalization and System Integration Directorate, Emerson Pascawira Sinulingga, S.T., M.Sc., Ph.D., as a speaker, emphasized that SILA, as a form of continued campus digitalization is very urgent to have because, aside from being one of the USU Rector's priority programs, it can also accelerate operational activities at USU to improve USU's academic reputation. He used the term "local champion" for the BIMTEK participants, as he considers it necessary to have people committed to transforming together towards campus digitalization from each service unit and faculty at USU.

"So campus digitalization becomes very urgent because, firstly, it becomes a pressing need to become a university that can operate effectively and efficiently to improve the academic reputation of Universitas Sumatera Utara, and it is also a priority program of USU Rector Prof. Muryanto Amin's leadership, making it a very important thing to be implemented immediately," asserted Emerson Pascawira Sinulingga, S.T., M.Sc., Ph.D.

The Head of USU's Bureaucratic Reform and Transformation, Dr. Nurman Achmad, S.Sos., M.Soc.Sc., revealed that service provision is more directed toward students than other members of the academic community therefore, the university needs to make efforts to serve students so that they become the best. Dr. Nurman added that optimal service is the most crucial thing to ensure the academic community is satisfied with the existing services, which will ultimately benefit USU in return through tracer studies, etc.

"Yes, because we see that if we talk about market share, for example, those we serve are mostly students, so we have to focus on student services because we are indeed required to serve students to create these students to become the best people later. That's why there's so much we need to focus on student services," said Dr. Nurman Achmad, S.Sos., M.Soc.Sc.

News
SDGs 11
SDGs
SDGs 9
Management
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara