MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
New Step Of Curriculum, USU Soon Launches Vocational Faculty
New Step of Curriculum, USU Soon Launches Vocational Faculty
Published At
20 June 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
New Step of Curriculum, USU Soon Launches Vocational Faculty
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 20 June 2022

“Bismillah, to start a new step of making all improvements to achieve the university's important targets, one of the things I mentioned earlier out of the 10 points is the achievement in the context of accreditation. But, of course, it is essential for institutional accreditation, study program accreditation, both accreditation through BAN-PT, LAM, and international accreditation," he said.

PR USU - Vice-Rector I Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Dr. Edy Ikhsan S.H, M.A with all supporting components under him, are ready to start a new chapter in making improvements to achieve all important university targets. It was conveyed during the routine morning rally in the courtyard of the USU Central Administrative Bureau Building on Monday, (13/06/2022).

Edy Ikhsan said that with two new directorates, namely the Directorate of Development with the Directorate of Achievements and Alumni, the Legal Assurance Agency, and the Curriculum Innovation Institute would start improving them in the context of achieving accreditation.

“Bismillah, to start a new step of making all improvements to achieve the university's important targets, one of the things I mentioned earlier out of the 10 points is the achievement in the context of accreditation. But, of course, it is essential for institutional accreditation, study program accreditation, both accreditation through BAN-PT, LAM, and international accreditation," he said.

Edy Ikhsan also mentioned that USU would open a vocational faculty. Therefore, curriculum structure improvements in responding to the MBKM program's objectives and the curriculum's transformation at D-3 and D-4 are highlighted in this regard.

"The second is improvements to the curriculum structure that respond to the objectives of MBKM, then curriculum changes in the context of the transformation of D-3 to D-4 because this year we will be launching a vocational faculty," he continued.

USU also tries to achieve the target as requested by the Key Performance Indicators (IKU) of 25% of the existing student body in 2022/2023 as well as strengthening all student achievement designs in responding to issues surrounding MBKM. According to Edy, this is impossible for WR 1 and his staff to do if it is not supported by solid support from work units, faculties, study programs, and other bureaus.

"Of course, this is an extraordinary job if only WR 1, 2 directors, and their secretaries, the institution and those below it will not be able to carry out unless there is strong support from work units from faculties, study programs, bureaus in Another VR," he said.

Responding to about 18 percent of study programs at USU that were accredited with excellent programs, Edy said that the way to prepare everything related to accreditation could be done with intense assistance carried out by the quality assurance agency, sharing visions, consultations, and communication.

“The mentoring process is intense, day by day by the quality assurance agency, then the vision is shared, consultation is carried out regularly, and then communication. In that way, we then prepare everything related to accreditation," said VR 1 USU.

On the same occasion, WR I also mentioned the issue of lectures which he hopes can be held offline in the next odd semester. However, it is still pending developments regarding the fluctuations of Covid-19.

In the end, he hopes that all existing components and targets will receive support, coordination, communication, and substantial funding support for all the work that is USU's collaborator.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Education
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara