MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Engineering
Undergraduate Program In Chemical Engineering
Undergraduate Program
Chemical Engineering
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Undergraduate Program in Chemical Engineering at Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) has been established since 1979 and is known as one of the study programs with the highest passing grade at USU. This program aims to explore chemical principles by applying engineering techniques to produce and manage various chemical processes in industry. Students will explore the basic principles of chemistry and apply them on a large scale to develop chemical processes, such as oil and gas processing, drug production, and the manufacture of other chemical products. The program integrates academic knowledge with field practice and research, preparing students holistically to handle challenges in the industrial world.

The program has a vision to become a superior and competitive Chemical Engineering Study Program in the field of Environmental Process Technology Based on Local Potential at the global level. We invite you to join the Undergraduate Program in Chemical Engineering at Universitas Sumatera Utara, where you can embark on an in-depth journey in understanding the modern manufacturing industry and sustainable technological innovation. Graduates of this program will hold a Bachelor of Engineering (S.T.) degree, ready to contribute to advancing the chemical industry and technology in the future.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

teknikkimia@usu.ac.id

Undergraduate Program in Chemical Engineering

Accredited Unggul

51/SK/BAN-PT/Ak-PPJ/S/I/2022

Vision of Undergraduate Program in Chemical Engineering

To become a superior and competitive Chemical Engineering Study Program in the field of Environmental Process Technology Based on Local Potential at the global level.

Mission of Undergraduate Program in Chemical Engineering

Academic Atmosphere

Building a conducive academic atmosphere in the learning process, research, and community service for the development of graduates with BINTANG personalities.

Higher Education

Organizing Chemical Engineering Higher Education based on an output-based curriculum to produce graduates who are able to compete at a global level.

Research and Community Service

Developing research and community service oriented to the problems of environmentally sound process technology based on TALENTA in a sustainable manner for the welfare of society.

Networking

Strengthening and expanding national and international networks to improve the activities of the three pillars of higher education in a sustainable manner.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Polymer

Oleochemicals

Renewable Energy

Waste Management

Natural Material Processing

Contact Us
Undergraduate Program in Chemical Engineering
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Almamater Kampus USU Medan - 20155

(+62) - 618213250

teknikkimia@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara