MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Realization Of PBL, USU Indonesian Literature Held Art Performance
Realization of PBL, USU Indonesian Literature Held Art Performance
Published At
20 June 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Realization of PBL, USU Indonesian Literature Held Art Performance
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 20 June 2022

“Everyone seems to have their own talent explored, that's what I see. What may have been hidden all this time is actually inside them, namely singing, opera, then poetry and drama. So that's what I need to appreciate," he said.

PR USU - Indonesian Literature Study Program, Faculty of Cultural Sciences (FIB) Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held a performance to complete the Performing Arts course. The activity, which was intended to realize the Project-Based Learning (PBL) curriculum, took place at the USU Performance Building (FIB) on Friday (17/06/2022).

Head of Indonesian Literature Study Program, Dr. Dra. Dwi Widayati, M.Hum., appreciated the students who have been able to take time out of busyness during the exam period to be creative in this show. According to him, this has explored the talents that exist in each student.

“Everyone seems to have their talent explored, that's what I see. What may have been hidden all this time is actually inside them, namely singing, opera, then poetry and drama. So that's what I need to appreciate," he said.

Dr. Dwi Widayati hopes this activity can be maintained and not stop after completing the Performing Arts course so that it can become an asset for the Indonesian Literature Study Program that can be displayed at certain moments.

"I hope it doesn't fade here, not just releasing performing arts courses, but indeed becoming a forerunner and an asset for the study program that we will present at a certain moment," said the Head of the Indonesian Literature Study Program.

In line with this, the Secretary of the Indonesian Literature Study Program, Dra. Nurhayati Harahap, M.Hum hopes this kind of activity can be continued and applied by other courses because it is following the demands of PBL.

"Hopefully, it will continue and be applied to other courses because it is one of the demands of PBL, which is project-based teaching," said Nurhayati.

Bambang Riyanto, S.S, M.Si as a lecturer in the Performing Arts course, chose to hold this performance because, according to him, this was the implementation of the MBKM program launched by the government and following the direction of the USU Rector.

"So this is a form of MBKM implementation launched by the government, especially in changing the case-based curriculum and project-based learning. That's why the performing arts course became a PBL project subject in Indonesian Literature,” said Bambang.

Performing Arts student Rizka Fitriyani, one of the talents, said that they had made preparations such as costumes, scripts, and facial expressions.

"So this is the assignment for the UAS course in the performing arts course. There's a lot of preparation, from dancers maybe costumes, from theater preparations for text and facial expressions," he said.

In the show, there were performances in the form of dramas from Putu Wjaya's scripts, ethnic and modern dances, and poetry musicals.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Special - Humas

News
Education
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara