MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Selection Of USU Student Ambassadors 2024: An Event For Developing Student Potential And Talent
Selection of USU Student Ambassadors 2024: An Event for Developing Student Potential and Talent
Published At
20 November 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
Selection of USU Student Ambassadors 2024: An Event for Developing Student Potential and Talent
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Wednesday, 20 November 2024

“This activity is not only a competition but also a space to identify and encourage talented students to become the best representatives of our campus,” said Prof. Fidel.

USU PR - The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held the USU Student Ambassador Selection Year 2024. This annual event is one of the important moments for students to showcase their talents, creativity, and abilities as the best representatives of the university. The election took place at the USU Auditorium on Sunday (17/11/2024).

In his speech, USU Secretary Prof. Dr. dr. Muhammad Fidel Ganis Siregar, M.Ked (OG), Sp.O.G, Subsp. F.E.R., expressed his gratitude to the participants who enthusiastically participated in the series of competitions. According to him, this event is not only a competition, but also a space to recognize and appreciate the potential of USU students.

“This activity is not only a competition but also a space to identify and encourage talented students to become the best representation of our campus,” said Prof. Fidel.

This selection has started since October 2024, with a total of 484 participants who went through four strict selection stages, namely administrative selection; interview selection; talent selection; and workshops and training. During the workshop, participants were tested in various abilities such as soft skills, public speaking, and catwalk. From this process, 40 finalists were selected who underwent a six-day quarantine before the final night.

Apart from being a competition, the USU 2024 Student Ambassador Selection is also a valuable learning experience for the participants. Director of the Directorate of Student Achievement and Alumni Relations (Ditmawalumni USU), Rahma Yurliani, S.Psi, M.Psi, emphasized that this activity must be interpreted as a process to build oneself, not just to win.

“We hope that this activity can provide opportunities for students to build confidence as communicators who are able to leave a positive impression, both on campus and in the wider community,” said Rahma.

MEPRO USU Chairperson, Angelika Sarumaha, stated that student ambassadors are expected to not only focus on developing networks within the university, but also establishing relationships with communities, institutions, and organizations, both at the national and international levels.

“From the assessment indicators, there are public speaking skills, insight, and appearance. So the assessment criteria include public speaking, appearance, insight, and the way they carry themselves,” said Angelika.

With the election of the new student ambassadors, it is hoped that they can become figures who not only inspire on campus, but also in the wider community. So that they are able to carry out their duties as representatives of the university with dedication and responsibility, bringing the good name of USU to higher achievements.

News
SDGs 4
SDGs
SDGs 5
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara