MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Ministry Of ATR/BPN Land Disputes Public Lecture At USU
Ministry of ATR/BPN Land Disputes Public Lecture at USU
Published At
30 November 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Ministry of ATR/BPN Land Disputes Public Lecture at USU
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 30 November 2022

"Secondly, we hope that there will also be continued collaboration between universities and ministries, both at the national and local levels, the regional head office level. For this reason, the first is to realize better land governance," the Deputy Minister of ATR/BPN explained.

USU Public Relations - The Ministry of Agrarian Affairs and Spatial Planning (ATR)/National Land Agency (BPN) held a public lecture at the Universitas Sumatera Utara discussing the Resolution of Land Conflicts and Disputes through Equitable Agrarian Reform. Presenting directly the Deputy Minister of ATR/Deputy Head of BPN Raja Juli Antoni, Ph.D., as the keynote speaker, this activity was officially opened by USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin., S.Sos., M.Si, at the USU Student Center on Thursday (11/17/2022).

USU Rector welcomed and appreciated the holding of this public lecture, because later the material that will be presented will become information to provide horizons for the participating lecturers and students.

"Yes, this is the first time we thank you. Mr. Wamen has provided the time to come here and choose USU to be able to give public lectures," the Rector said.

According to the Rector, land conflicts and disputes are classic problems that occur in Indonesia which often involve the community and the government, the community and industry, and others so that it requires not only strategy, regulation, and courage but also a sense of crisis and the approach taken by government officials to handle it.

"To unravel the conflicts that occur, is also not as easy as turning the palm of the hand, considering that land ownership disputes are often caused by unclear or overlapping administration and ownership status," he explained.

Being an implementation of the MBKM program, this public lecture which is a synergy between BPN and USU aims to provide a wider space in the development of science, technology and human resources in the fields of agrarian/land and spatial planning. Through this activity, participants are expected to be able to educate the public regarding the topics discussed in this public lecture.

On the sidelines of the ATR/BPN Goes to Campus activity, Deputy Minister of ATR/Deputy Head of BPN Raja Juli Antoni, Ph.D., explained that this public lecture aims to convey all the advantages, disadvantages, and challenges of the programs launched by the Ministry of ATR/ BPN. The public lecture presented by the ATR Ministry seeks to realize good and just land governance to improve people's welfare.

"Secondly, we hope that there will also be continued collaboration between universities and ministries, both at the national and local levels, the regional head office level. For this reason, the first is to realize better land governance," the Deputy Minister of ATR/BPN explained.

The Deputy Minister of ATR/BPN hopes that through the ATR/BPN Goes to Campus public lecture, fresh ideas will emerge that can be discussed in the forum. "And with this we also hope that there will be fresh ideas, yes, there will be new ideas that can be discussed and debated in such forums," said Raja.

For information, the material in the public lecture on Land Conflict and Dispute Resolution through Just Agrarian Reform was delivered by the Director of Land Conflict Prevention and Handling, Brigadier General Pol Drs. Widodo, SH, MH and Director of Land Reform Sudaryanto, SH, MM. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Education
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara