MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Medicine
Specialist-1 Program In Neurosurgery
Spesialist-1 Program
Neurosurgery
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Specialist Program in Neurosurgery of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is a study program that studies special medical skills that focus on teaching neurosurgery with systematic analytical learning methods and evidence-based medicine to provide fundamental and comprehensive neurosurgical science education that can support sustainable education.

The USU Specialist Program in Neurosurgery includes a group of the best individuals who are highly committed to producing neurosurgeon candidates who are skilled in solving neurosurgical problems and providing counseling actions in the preventive, curative, and rehabilitative fields, as well as have integrity under Pancasila and the code of scientific ethics and professional ethics. Doctors who have completed this study program will hold the Neurosurgery Specialist (Sp.B.S.) degree.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

dean.med@usu.ac.id

Specialist-1 Program in Neurosurgery

Accredited Excellent

No. 0647/LAM-PTKes/Akr/Spe/IX/2023

Vision of Specialist-1 Program in Neurosurgery

To produce graduates with neuro-oncology excellence who can follow the development of global neurosurgical science and technology by 2020.

Mission of Specialist-1 Program in Neurosurgery

Education

To organize Neurosurgery Specialist education that refers to the Indonesian National Qualifications Framework (KKNI) Curriculum standards, especially excellent competencies in neuro-oncology, to produce graduates who excel in knowledge, skills, morals, and ethics.

Research

To improve the quality and quantity of research, especially in neuro-oncology, to support scientific competence and public health services.

Health Services

To provide health services with excellent care in the field of neuro-oncology to society in the form of preventive, curative, rehabilitative, and palliative care.

Cooperation

To realize the management of an independent, modern, and professional neurosurgery institution and develop institutional cooperation within and outside the country, especially in neuro-oncology.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Oncology

Trauma

Vascular

Pediatric

Spine

Contact Us
Specialist-1 Program in Neurosurgery
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Dr. Mansyur No. 5, Padang Bulan, Kec. Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20155

(061) - 8211045

dean.med@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara