MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Rector Equalizes Perceptions Of University Progress With Heads Of Study Programs
USU Rector Equalizes Perceptions of University Progress with Heads of Study Programs
Published At
29 October 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Rector Equalizes Perceptions of University Progress with Heads of Study Programs
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 29 October 2021

"If we have the same perception, it will be easy for us to achieve the goals of university progress. The standard size of our work achievement is listed in three documents that can be used as a reference by head of the study program," Muryanto said.

USU PR - The Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., held a briefing regarding the Rector's Work Program to the heads of study programs within the university including unit heads and laboratory heads, Monday (10/18/2021) at the USU Auditorium. The event was also coupled with the signing of the 2022 Performance Agreement between the dean and the rector and between the dean and the head of the study program.

Moderated by Vice Rector II Muhammad Arifin Nasution, S.Sos., MSP, the Rector in his presentation emphasized that the debriefing activity was intended to equalize perceptions related to advancing universities. Leaders at the rectorate level, deans to study programs must go hand in hand in planning, budgeting and evaluation.

"If our perceptions are the same, then it will be easy for us to achieve the goals of university progress. The standard size of our work achievement is listed in three documents that can be used as a reference by the study program leader," he said.

The three references that must be remembered and memorized, he added, are the 2020-2024 USU Strategic Plan (Renstra) which in the second period the achievement was campus internationalization. The second is the Rector's Work Program 2021-2026 and the last is the Key Performance Indicators (KPI).

Specifically for the rector's six priority programs, Mury explained that the program is a way for the leaders to realize the three university achievement documents. Every leader must be able to translate these programs into planning, budgeting and evaluation documents.

The rector's six priority programs include, first, changing the institutional governance structure that is adaptive to change. "Our governance is not rigid and can respond to changes quickly, especially in the current era of industry 4.0," he said.

Second is the adjustment of the tasks of the Tri Dharma of Higher Education where the adjustment follows the needs of the industry. The concept of Independent Learning Independent Campus (MBKM) makes the current learning process project-based.

"Old school education, service and research can no longer be maintained. Study programs must be able to reform their studies with a global perspective or a national perspective. Lecturers must reform the classroom with collaborative and participatory learning," he said.

Third is the arrangement of infrastructure. USU's infrastructure arrangement is also to support campus internationalization. "Laboratory rooms must be improved, public spaces such as parks are increased, classrooms are made as comfortable as possible and clean toilets must be created. So faculty and study program leaders must have a master plan for the improvement of all classrooms and rooms. There must be a holistic plan for the construction of laboratories or classrooms," he said.

Fourth is campus digitalization. "Digitalization of this campus will make it easier for us to do our work, bureaucratic efficiency will be created. Study programs must be literate to the digitalization of this campus," Mury said.

USU is currently trying to cut service flow by implementing an e-office and establishing a one-stop application (ASA) in each faculty so that services can be easier and can be monitored.

Fifth, implementing campus enterprise, where scientific and research products can be branded to enter the industrial market. "Supporting the campus enterprise, we will involve professionals to develop prototypes of research results and invite companies to play an active role," he said.

Last but not least, sixth, Mury explained to strengthen cooperation with various parties. "This cooperation is no longer just an MoU, but must also be detailed into a more specific work agreement. This cooperation must be selective so that it has maximum output for the two institutions that cooperate," he said.

The Rector also emphasized that every lecturer in the study program understands the content and intent of campus internationalization. These include building scientific networks with overseas campuses, writing research results in English on personal websites, writing in Scopus indexed journals and encouraging collaboration with overseas campuses which is implemented through joint research.

Muryanto emphasized that the performance agreement or work contract signed by the head of the study program could not be played with. Every point in the signed employment contract must be achievable. There will be a system to monitor the implementation of the work programs carried out so that the reporting process is carried out regularly, every quarter.

"So it can’t be taken for granted, ladies and gentlemen. Pay close attention to the points of the signed work program, it has a value, there is a target. If you don't hit the target, there will be consequences, so you must really be responsible for it," he emphasized.

The Rector reminded that the study program is the spearhead of university progress. "As long as the study program is active and able to make changes for the better, the progress of the university in accordance with the USU Strategic Plan, the Rector's Work Program and the IKU will be realized. We have entered a new civilization, leave the old ways so that we can stand upright as an excellence campus at national and international levels," he said.

Also present at the debriefing of the Rector's Work Program Vice Rector I Dr Edy Ikhsan, Vice Rector III Dr Poppy Z Anjelisa Hasibuan, Vice Rector IV Prof Opim Salim Sitompul, Vice Rector V Luhut Sihombing, MP and University Secretary Prof M Fidel Ganis Siregar and postgraduate school leaders, faculties, study programs, units and laboratories. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - PR

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara