MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Composes A Problem Map And Program Design To Accelerate Performance In 2022
USU Composes a Problem Map and Program Design to Accelerate Performance in 2022
Published At
20 December 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Composes a Problem Map and Program Design to Accelerate Performance in 2022
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 20 December 2021

The Rector said that, externally, USU still had to make more contributions to the industry and the Indonesian community through collaborations that benefited each party. Meanwhile, internally, according to the Rector, the problem that must be solved is to change the mindset of educators, lecturers and students to respond to changes due to disruption that is happening in the world globally.

USU PR - The university leadership has compiled a map of issues and developed a program design to produce outputs and outcomes according to the performance indicators that have been set at the end of this year to be implemented in 2022.

The Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., in a routine morning rally in the courtyard of the USU Central Administration Building, Monday (12/13/2021) conveyed the internal and external problems that must be solved by USU.

"Externally, USU still has to contribute more to the industry and the Indonesian community through collaboration that benefits each party," he said.

Meanwhile, internally, according to the Rector, the problem that must be solved is to change the mindset of educators, lecturers and students to respond to changes due to disruption that is happening in the world globally.

"We must solve the two general problem maps quickly, we will do it with effort or hard work to achieve achievements and carry out the tasks that have been given," said the Rector.

According to the Rector, the most important thing is to maximize the duties as lecturers, educators and students in order to produce alumni that are sought after by the industry.

“As lecturers, our task is to provide the best learning process for students who are currently experiencing many changes. Lecturers must continuously revise their teaching methods, submit learning service reports, invite practitioners to provide experiences, invite students to learn to work and be independent in teaching,” he explained.

In addition, the Rector appealed to every lecturer to share information on the latest scientific developments from their research results to the public through publications in reputable international journals and have innovative works that industry can use to solve problems in life.

"Lecturers must also manage their time to teach, do research and provide proportional service to the community," he continued.

Dr. Muryanto added, education personnel are required to be skilled in acting as administrators and accelerators in educational services. Educational service innovation should not be hampered.

"Without the support of skilled education services, we will run out of time and it will be difficult to produce reliable and moral graduates," he said.

To overcome the existing problems, according to Dr. Muryanto, university leaders and leaders of all units must also have two abilities at once. First, being able to accurately identify the problem and develop an action plan so that it can be resolved quickly.

“All elements of the leadership must often come down to the bottom, listen to problems and ensure that within a certain period of time the problem can be resolved. Get involved in looking at the achievement figures quantitatively and qualitatively," he said.

Lastly, Dr. Muryanto said that every job will be evaluated according to its performance and presented openly to the public. If the performance is reputable, it will be rewarded. On the other hand, if the performance decreases, punishment will be given. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: M. Andriansyah - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara