MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Hosts The Grand Final Of North Sumatra Traditional Music Competition: Efforts To Preserve Local Culture In The Midst Of Modernization
USU Hosts the Grand Final of North Sumatra Traditional Music Competition: Efforts to Preserve Local Culture in the Midst of Modernization
Published At
18 February 2025
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Hosts the Grand Final of North Sumatra Traditional Music Competition: Efforts to Preserve Local Culture in the Midst of Modernization
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 18 February 2025

“I would like to thank and welcome the ladies and gentlemen who have attended this event as a form of tangible support for efforts to preserve the culture of North Sumatra,” said Prof. Fidel.

 

Public Relations USU - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) hosted the Grand Final event of the North Sumatera Traditional Vocal and Music Competition initiated by the Chairman of Committee II DPD RI, Dr. Badikenita Putri Br. Sitepu SE., SH., M.Si.This activity is part of an effort to preserve local culture, especially traditional music and songs, in the midst of rapid globalization and modernization. It took place at the Multipurpose Building of the Faculty of Cultural Sciences on Friday (14/02/25).

USU Secretary, Prof. Dr. dr. Muhammad Fidel Ganis Siregar M.Ked (OG), Sp.O.G, Subsp.F.E.R, representing USU Rector Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos.M.Si in his speech said that the university expressed its appreciation for the implementation of this activity.

“I would like to thank and welcome the ladies and gentlemen who have attended this event as a form of tangible support for efforts to preserve the culture of North Sumatra,” said Prof. Fidel.

He said this activity was seen as a strategic step to strengthen the younger generation's role in maintaining local culture to remain relevant in the present. It also reflects the collaboration between academics, government, and business to preserve North Sumatra's cultural wealth.

“So efforts to preserve and develop traditional arts must continue, not only by artists but also by all elements of society,” explained Fidel.

 

“USU has the responsibility not only to produce academically smart graduates, but also strong character and integrity. Students have a strategic role in building the future, and are aware to contribute to realizing good governance and accountable state financial administration, “said Prof. Dr. dr. Muhammad Fidel Ganis Siregar, M.Ked (OG), Sp.O.G, Subsp.F.E.R. According to him, this activity is a competition and a means of building the younger generation's pride in their local culture.

 

“(This event) invites young people to be able to appreciate their culture,” Badikenita explained.

The finalists have previously received intensive coaching, including vocal training and understanding the cultural values contained in traditional songs. The goal is for them not only to perform but also to be able to live and appreciate the songs they perform.

 

“We don't just judge from the quality of the voice, but it's how they appreciate the song itself, (how) they understand what the words are, and when they are sung,” Badikenita explained.

 

The culminating event featured the finalists performing traditional songs from various regions in North Sumatra with the distinctive musical instruments of each tribe. The competition was presented as a festival to see the beautiful harmony of indigenous and migrant tribes in North Sumatra.

 

USU hopes that this activity can be the beginning of a joint movement to maintain local culture. With the support of all parties, it is hoped that the traditional arts and culture of North Sumatra will remain alive and inspire future generations. This event is clear evidence that in the midst of the challenges of modernization, cultural heritage can still be maintained and continuously fought for.

News
SDGs 11
SDGs
SDGs 9
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara