MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Ecumenical Christmas Celebration Brings The Theme Of Be Strong To Share Loves And Peace
USU Ecumenical Christmas Celebration Brings the Theme of Be Strong to Share Loves and Peace
Published At
20 December 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Ecumenical Christmas Celebration Brings the Theme of Be Strong to Share Loves and Peace
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 20 December 2021

The Rector said that Indonesia is a country where the people are given the freedom and independence to embrace a different religion, and this right is guaranteed by law. So the roots of Indonesia's pluralism should be cared for by continuing to develop the spirit of togetherness on top of existing pluralism.

USU PR - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held the 2021 Oikoumene Christmas Celebration with the theme "Be Strong to Share Loves and Peace". Held at the USU Chapel on Sunday (12/12/2021), this celebration was filled with a sermon by Ps. Jose Carol and attended by the Governor of North Sumatra Edy Rahmayadi.

In his remarks, USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., conveyed a Merry Christmas to all USU Christian academics. He hopes that the momentum of this celebration can be a driving force in development to realize an advanced, just and prosperous Indonesia.

 "Although we are still on vigilance and under the shadow of a pandemic that is not yet fully over, I hope that all of us can renew and increase the spirit of brotherhood, tolerance and sincere respect among religious communities in Indonesia," the Rector said.

 He added that Indonesia is a country where people are given the freedom and independence to embrace a different religion, and this right is guaranteed by law. So the roots of Indonesia's pluralism should be cared for by continuing to develop the spirit of togetherness on top of existing pluralism.

 “Within these differences, we must be able to find common ground that binds us together as a nation that works hand in hand in supporting development. With unity, believe me, we will definitely be able to achieve the big goals that our founding fathers aspired to in the past,” said Dr. Muryanto.

 The Rector asked to cultivate an attitude of tolerance and mutual respect, so as not to be clashed by irresponsible groups.

 “Diversity is the key to enormous strength to support our efforts in pursuit of lofty goals. For USU, the goal is focused on developing the campus into an international standard university, characterized by local excellence," he said.

 With this 2021 Christmas and New Year celebration, Dr. Muryanto appealed to the entire academic community to be closer together, unite their vision and work hand in hand in advancing USU.

 “I believe that each of us has great potential which, when put together, will be a tremendous force for USU to realize all of its strategic plans to be recognized as a world-renowned university. Let's pray that this can be realized soon," he said.

 In line with this, the Chairperson of USU Christian Holidays, Prof. Dr. Albiner hopes that this Christmas celebration can strengthen the solidarity of the entire USU academic community, to be able to make peace and strengthen love in the implementation of the Tridharma of Higher Education.

 "In the future, we in the USU family will increasingly show their achievements for one of our goals, USU towards campus internationalization through scientific publications and innovative writings that can provide solutions," said Prof. Albiner. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara