MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
University Activity
USU Lecturers Receive Patent For Self-Care Invention
USU Lecturers Receive Patent for Self-Care Invention
Published At
02 February 2023
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
USU Lecturers Receive Patent for Self-Care Invention
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Thursday, 02 February 2023

The patent for the website ariganursingselfcare.com responds to various problems that occur in society, such as the increase in population, the long distance between patients and health care centres, the cost and time that patients have to spend to get services, the lack of professional nurses and the increasing number of degenerative diseases.

Two lecturers of Universitas Sumatera Utara, Reni Asmara Ariga, SKp, MARS, from the Faculty of Nursing and Dr Edy Ikhsan, SH, MA, from the Faculty of Law, collaborated as inventors of Patent IDS000005334 WEB-BASED SELF-CARE METHOD. The Ministry of Law and Human Rights granted the patent on 12 December 2022 for the invention of the website ariganursingselfcare.com.

The holder of this patent is Universitas Sumatera Utara, as a manifestation of the inventor's dedication to the advancement of USU in the arena of education and service for the community. This patent on the website ariganursingselfcare.com answers various problems that occur in society, such as the increasing population, the long distance between patients and health service centres, the cost and time that patients have to spend to get services, the lack of professional nurses and the increasing number of degenerative diseases. This invention is expected to be accessible to the public to provide real benefits for the downstream of the product of care innovation. The invention relates to a self-care method that provides nursing care information and consultation services based on a website implemented through a smartphone or a computer.

In the era of revolution 5.0, humans will live side by side with technology in all aspects of life through digital devices, including nursing. Technology helps the public in gaining access to health services as well as helping hospitals and nurses in providing nursing care services, which are helpful for improving health status by minimising costs, distance, and time.

The ariganursingselfcare.com website invention is intended to improve the ability to perform self-care, especially in health promotion methods to increase knowledge. Self-care is done by consulting through the website to improve health, quality of life and recovery. This invention contains the latest nursing care information, such as wound care, maternity care, diabetes care, respiratory care, general examination (hypertension, hypotension, hyperuricemia, hypouricemia, hypercholesterolemia, hypocholesterolemia, nutritional care for toddlers, dental care, COVID-19 care and the five most frequently complained about diseases at PUSKESMAS. This web provides comprehensive nursing care consultation services starting from the assessment stage to the evaluation stage.

Article
University Activity
Research Activity
Find More Activity
University Activity
USU Lecturer Concern on the Extinction of Orangutan Tapanuli
University Activity
USU professor turns shrimp shell waste into face serum
University Activity
USU Research Collaboration Lowers Stunting Rate in Sergai

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara