MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
University Activity
USU Fasilkom-TI's Community Service Team Provides Differentiated Learning
USU Fasilkom-TI's Community Service Team Provides Differentiated Learning
Published At
18 September 2023
Published By
David Kevin Handel Hutabarat
USU Fasilkom-TI's Community Service Team Provides Differentiated Learning
 

Published by

David Kevin Handel Hutabarat

Published at

Monday, 18 September 2023

Head of the Community Service Team, Sri Melvani Hardi, said this community service aims to improve the learning process by using the concept of differentiated learning, which serves to accommodate the diversity of students in the classroom in terms of student interests, learning profiles, and readiness to achieve better learning outcomes. The learning process uses various learning applications, namely Paddlet, Kahoot, Nearpod, and Classcraft, which allow students to access learning materials anytime and anywhere while maintaining face-to-face interaction with teachers and fellow students.

USU PUBLIC RELATION - Community service is one of the three pillars of higher education that lecturers must carry out. The Community Service Team of the Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology, Universitas Sumatera Utara (Fasilkom-TI USU), has conducted a community service program entitled “Differentiated Learning as a Renewable Learning Method by Maximizing the Potential of Information Technology through a Blended Learning Approach at SMAN 5 Padang Sidempuan”. This activity was held on August 18-19, 2023, at SMAN 5 Padang Sidempuan.

The USU Fasilkom-TI Community Service Team was led by Sri Melvani Hardi, S.Kom., M.Kom., with the team members Dr. Marischa Elveny, S.TI., M.Kom. and Ivan Jaya, S.Si, M.Kom. The activity was also attended by 3 active students of the Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology, Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), namely Muhammad Said Agung Naufal Nasution, Tamir Rusydi Hega, and Yoristedi Prayoga.

Head of the Community Service Team, Sri Melvani Hardi, said this community service aims to improve the learning process by using the concept of differentiated learning, which serves to accommodate the diversity of students in the classroom in terms of student interests, learning profiles, and readiness to achieve better learning outcomes. The learning process uses various learning applications, namely Paddlet, Kahoot, Nearpod, and Classcraft, which allow students to access learning materials anytime and anywhere while maintaining face-to-face interaction with teachers and fellow students.

This series of service activities were carried out for 2 consecutive days, attended by teachers of SMAN 5 Padang Sidempuan with practical implementation to determine the extent of the teachers’ knowledge related to the material to be delivered. Then, proceed with providing material related to differentiated learning through a blended learning approach and material on learning applications (Paddlet, Kahoot, Nearpod, and Classcraft). At the end of the activity, there was a poster to show the teachers’ understanding of the material that had been delivered.

The community service activities were welcomed by the Head of SMAN 5 Padang Sidempuan, represented by the Deputy Head of SMAN 5, Rumini Sukarwati, S.Pd., M.Si. She expressed her gratitude for the presence of the lecturer team and students who participated in organizing the activities.

University Activity
Community Service Activity
Find More Activity
University Activity
USU Lecturer Concern on the Extinction of Orangutan Tapanuli
University Activity
USU professor turns shrimp shell waste into face serum
University Activity
USU Research Collaboration Lowers Stunting Rate in Sergai

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara