MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Promotes Inclusiveness And Eco-Friendliness In All Activities
USU Promotes Inclusiveness and Eco-Friendliness in All Activities
Published At
24 October 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
USU Promotes Inclusiveness and Eco-Friendliness in All Activities
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Thursday, 24 October 2024

In the seminar, several participants with special needs in the criteria of hearing impairment also enlivened the event. They seemed enthusiastic and were able to follow the program with the help of JBI who guided the communication.

USU Promotes Inclusiveness and Eco-Friendliness in All Activities

The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) has begun to implement inclusivity and environmental friendliness in all activities. The Education Talk-Inspirazi activity with the theme “Creative Thinking & The Art of Storytelling” in Prof. Dr. Suhadji Hadibroto Hall, Faculty of Economics and Business USU on Saturday (19/10/2024) was attended by participants with special needs. USU also presented a Sign Language Interpreter (JBI) to support all participants to follow the activities well.  

In the seminar, several participants with special needs in the hearing impaired criteria enlivened the event. They seemed enthusiastic and able to follow the course of the event with the help of JBI who guided the communication. One of the participants with special needs, Novi, expressed her appreciation for the inclusivity that has begun to be implemented at USU.

“This is a good activity because we can participate. So far we have found it difficult to participate in activities at USU because there is no JBI assistance. However, now we can participate and gain new knowledge,” said Novi, translated by JBI. 

In addition, the activity implements an environmentally friendly movement. USU collaborated with Telkomsel and Plastic.wise to carry out the movement. Supporting the movement, Telkomsel distributed souvenirs in the form of phone holders made from used prime card waste to all activity participants.

Plastic.wise, which is a USU student movement that cares about the environment, also took action in this activity. Participants who will take part in the activity are required to bring plastic waste as a “ticket” to enter the activity. As a result, Plastic.wise collected quite a lot of plastic waste through this activity.

They socialized to the participants that plastic.wise also processed plastic waste into fuel. In their explanation, they explained how the processing works that does not cause carbon residue. Thus, processing plastic waste into fuel is still environmentally friendly because it does not produce harmful exhaust gases.

Secretary of the Directorate of Education Development of the Universitas Sumatera Utara, Dr. Joiverdia Arifiyanto S.H., M.H., emphasized that this movement will continue to be carried out in all USU activities. He hopes that this activity will inspire us to continue to think creatively, weave our own stories, and contribute to the progress of the nation. “Because in the end, every small step we take together will shape a brighter future for Indonesia,” he said.

In addition, this activity is a series of the 72nd Anniversary of the Universitas Sumatera Utara and collaborates with Telkomsel. The keynote speaker was Ika Natassa, a renowned novelist whose works have been brought to the big screen. Ika Natassa explained that Storytelling ability is a very important asset in facing competition in the world of work and meeting future industry needs. A person's communication skills can be reviewed through the effectiveness of the message conveyed to the listener through storytelling. (RR)

News
SDGs 15
SDGs 4
SDGs
SDGs 13
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara