MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Mathematics And Natural Sciences
Master's Program In Biology
Master Program
Biology
Universitas Sumatera Utara

As an advanced study program from the Undergraduate Program in Biology, the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Master's Program in Biology is responsible for providing quality education that focuses on studies in the fields of industrial biology, the environment, and natural resource conservation.

Supported by qualified teaching staff, the Master's Program in Biology has a high commitment to guiding students to be able to take an interdisciplinary or multidisciplinary approach in conducting research and producing biological science development services in the fields of industry, environment, and natural resource conservation. Graduates of the USU Master's Program in Biology have spread in various institutions throughout Indonesia with a variety of career opportunities, such as becoming researchers, educators, laboratory technicians and analysts, and entrepreneurs.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

magisterbiologi@usu.ac.id

Master's Program in Biology

Accredited Unggul

026/SK/LAMSAMA/Akred/M/V/2023

Vision of Master's Program in Biology

Become a Master of Biology Study Program that produces graduates who are able to compete at the global level in the fields of industry, environment, and preservation of natural resources.

Mission of Master's Program in Biology

Quality

Organizing quality education to produce graduates who are superior and regionally competitive in the fields of industry, environment, and natural resource conservation.

Research

Carry out and develop research and produce superior scientific work in the fields of industry, environment and natural resource conservation.

Public Service

Carry out public service based on the development of biological science and research results that can be applied directly to the user community.

Collaboration

Establishing collaboration with organizations, government and private institutions as well as domestic and foreign industries, in the context of developing and applying biology for the welfare of society.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Structure and Function of Plants

Structure and Function of Animals

Ecology

Microbiology

Contact Us
Master's Program in Biology
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Bioteknologi No.1 Kampus USU, Padang Bulan, Medan Baru 20155

(+62) - 618223564

magisterbiologi@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara