MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
First Morning Call, USU Rector Urges To Reignite The Spirit Of Indonesia And Not Prioritize Differences
First Morning Call, USU Rector Urges to Reignite the Spirit of Indonesia and Not Prioritize Differences
Published At
04 August 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
First Morning Call, USU Rector Urges to Reignite the Spirit of Indonesia and Not Prioritize Differences
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 04 August 2021

USU PUBLIC RELATION-MEDAN: We need to reignite the soul and the spirit of Indonesia in appreciation of Pancasila and the 1945 Constitution, also take good care of the element of Bhineka Tunggal Ika (Unity in Diversity) that grows as wealth and one of the basic strengths as an independent and civilized nation. The love for the homeland, which is manifested by unity and union among all elements of the nation, is absolutely necessary in encountering difficult times in the current pandemic era.

This was emphasized that the Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., in his direction at the first morning call (henceforth referred to as Apel Pagi) activity which was held in hybrid, namely offline in the courtyard of the USU Administration Central Bureau Building and online via zoom on Monday (8/2/2021). Apel Pagi is a new routine that applies at the beginning of every weekday within USU, following up on the Letter of the Minister for Administrative Reform and Bureaucratic Reform No. B/81/M.KT.00/2021 on June 14, 2021 and strengthen by the Circular Letter of the Secretary General of the Ministry of Education, Culture, Research, and Technology No.13 of 2021.

The Rector emphasized that in the times like this we can no longer walk alone and worship the power of groups and class, except to build stronger bridge and work hand in hand to endure in facing all difficulties.

“The Covid-19 pandemic may slow our pace down towards what we aspire to, but that does not mean stopping all the plans and performance targets that have been prepared. We must move more swiftly and strategically, surely without neglecting the safety and health of each of us. What we need in this limited movement and steps is a joining hands and making sure that the storm will pass. There are no difficulties without a way out. No result will betray sincerity,” Dr. Muryanto said.

The Rector urged to tighten ranks without heeding all differences, to unite in achieving the goal. USU must be able to realize all strategic plans that have been stipulated, towards an international standard university. This is not only a goal that will bring USU to a better level but also a manifestation of love for the homeland and make the nation and the country proudby presenting educational institutions that have excellence quality.

Dr. Muryanto reminded that service as a citizen is no longer proven by the courage to lift sharp bamboo to fight against the invaders as our heroes in the past did. Devotion to the nation and country today and in the days to come is a seriousness to ensure that Indonesia is not underestimated by foreign nations in various aspects.

“As our duty is in the sphere of education, it is in that area we must fight with all of our heart. An excellence Indonesia will lead us to a better civilization, which later will be passed on to our children and grandchildren. Let us continue to ignite the fire of red and white spirit in soul and mind, so that we can move our bodies to work better and even better. Red is for mobilizing courage to fight against all challenges and white is for willingness to be honest and sincere in carrying out all duties and services,” he said.

According to him, the challenges faced in the vortex of the pandemic and the acceleration of technology that has penetrated into various fields is the opportunities that must be faced with open mind and tirelessly continue to improve our competencies and expertise without stopping.

“The will to continue learning as part of the adaption process on all-digital and practical world needs to be maintained at all time. It’s never too late, so long we still have the passion to explore, hone and renew the existing potential. Let’s walk and hand in hand along the same corridor, towards the hope of bringing Universitas Sumatera Utara into a university that has good reputation in the world level. The excellence generation that we generate in the future is the generation that will bring Indonesia to its golden future,” he concluded.

Attending Apel Pagi online and offline: Chair and Secretary of the USU Board of Trustees, Chair and Secretary of the Academic Senate, Chair and Secretary of the Board of Professors, Vice Rectors, University Secretary, Expert Staff of the Rector, Head of Research Institution, Head of the Community Service Institution, Head of the Library, Head of Information System Center, Head of UPT/work unit/head of bureau/division head/, Head of USU’s Korpri and educational staff of USU’s Administration Center Bureau. Meanwhile, the Deans of the Faculties held separate ceremonies in their respective faculties. (RJ/©ULC)

Author: Renny Julia Harahap - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - PR

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara