MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Excellent Research
New Hope For Cervical Cancer Treatment With Andaliman
New Hope for Cervical Cancer Treatment with Andaliman
Published At
16 July 2024
Published By
Prof. Dr. Syafruddin Ilyas M.Biomed
New Hope for Cervical Cancer Treatment with Andaliman
 

Published by

Prof. Dr. Syafruddin Ilyas M.Biomed

Published at

Tuesday, 16 July 2024

Cervical cancer is a serious disease that requires a comprehensive approach to prevention and treatment. The discovery of the potential of Zanthoxylum acanthopodium as a cervical cancer therapy provides new hope. This plant has anticancer effects and offers a safer and more natural solution. With further research and proper support, andaliman could be a future cervical cancer drug candidate, bringing new hope to many women in Indonesia and the world.” said Prof. Dr. Syafruddin Ilyas

One of the deadliest cancers in Southeast Asia after breast cancer is cervical cancer. Cervical cancer continues to be a serious threat to women, especially in developing countries like Indonesia. In Indonesia, the incidence rate of cervical cancer reaches 17 per 100,000 population, while the mortality rate is 7.7 per 100,000 population. The high incidence and mortality rate of cervical cancer is due to the fact that women in Indonesia still have a shallow level of knowledge. Based on data from Hiremath’s research in 2017, only 30% of women in Indonesia have an adequate understanding of cervical cancer, while the remaining 70% have shallow knowledge.

Furthermore, Prof. Dr. Syafruddin Ilyas, M.Biomed, a researcher and lecturer at the Universitas Sumatera Utara with expertise in molecular reproduction, said, “Cervical cancer is generally caused by human papillomavirus (HPV) infection, which is transmitted through sexual intercourse and can survive in the body. This infection progresses to precancer and eventually cancer if not treated properly. Other risk factors include a number of children, irregular periods, and perineal hygiene. Therefore, it is vital to screen regularly and get vaccinated against HPV.”

In an effort to address cervical cancer, researchers consisting of Prof. Dr. Syafruddin Ilyas, M.Biomed., from the Universitas Sumatera Utara, along with Dr. Rostime H. Simanullang, Dr. Salomo Hutahaean, M.Si., Prof. Dr. Rosidah, M.Si., and Dr. Putri C. Situmorang, S.Pd., M.Si., continue to look for more effective and safe solutions. One interesting discovery came from the Zanthoxylum acanthopodium plant, also known as andaliman. This wild plant that grows in North Sumatra has been used traditionally as an anti-inflammatory and antioxidant drug. Research shows that andaliman has potential as a co-chemotherapy for breast cancer and is now being explored for cervical cancer.

Recent studies have shown that andaliman extract can inhibit CDK4 expression in cervical cancer cells. This provides new hope for developing safer and more effective plant-based therapies. Zanthoxylum acanthopodium is known to have a high antioxidant content, which can reduce oxidative stress and DNA damage, factors that contribute to cancer development.

The protein Cyclin-Dependent Kinase 4 (CDK4) plays a vital role in cell cycle control and cancer cell proliferation. Mutation or overexpression of CDK4 can lead to uncontrolled cell growth and inhibit apoptosis, which contributes to cancer progression. “CDK4 is an important target in cervical cancer therapy due to its role in cell cycle regulation. This study can enlighten us all by knowing how CDK4 in cervical cancer cells after being given Zanthoxylum acanthopodium (andaliman), which we hope can be a candidate for cervical cancer drugs in the future,” explained Prof. Dr. Syafruddin Ilyas.

Zanthoxylum acanthopodium, or andaliman, contains bioactive compounds that have been shown to have anticancer activity. “The extract of andaliman fruit can reduce malondialdehyde (MDA) levels in the blood and increase the expression of HSP-70, which is important for cell protection from damage,” said Prof. Dr. Syafruddin Ilyas. In addition, andaliman also has anti-inflammatory effects that can reduce chronic inflammation often associated with cancer development.

Research in mice showed that benzopyrene injection can cause the development of cancer cells. However, administration of andaliman extract inhibited cancer cell growth and improved overall tissue health. “The results of this study are auspicious and pave the way for the development of andaliman as an adjunctive therapy for cervical cancer,” said Prof. Dr. Syafruddin Ilyas.

The use of medicinal plants such as andaliman in cancer treatment provides new hope for patients seeking alternatives or adjuncts to conventional therapies such as chemotherapy and radiotherapy. “We need more clinical studies to confirm the effectiveness and safety of andaliman in humans, but preliminary results are auspicious,” said Prof. Dr. Syafruddin Ilyas.

In closing, Prof. Dr. Syafruddin Ilyas left a message that “Cervical cancer is a serious disease that requires a comprehensive approach to prevention and treatment. The discovery of the potential of Zanthoxylum acanthopodium as a cervical cancer therapy provides new hope. This plant has anticancer effects and offers a safer and more natural solution. With further research and proper support, andaliman could be a future cervical cancer drug candidate, bringing new hope to many women in Indonesia and the world.”

SDGs
SDGs 3
Paper Details
Journal
Research Journal of Pharmacy and Technology
Title
Effect of Zanthoxylum acanthopodium methanol extract on CDK4 expression to cervical cancer
Authors
Syafruddin Ilyas, Rostime H. Simanullang, Salomo Hutahaean, Rosidah Rosidah, Putri C. Situmorang
Author Affiliations
Department of Biology, Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences, Universitas Sumatera Utara, Medan, Indonesia, 20155
STIKes Murni Teguh Medan, Indonesia
Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Universitas Sumatera Utara, Medan, Indonesia, 20155
DOI
https://doi.org/10.52711/0974-360X.2021.00982
Find More Articles
Research Articles
The Impact of Illustrated Modules in Combating Stunting on Nias
Research Articles
Green Innovation Practices in Palm Oil Refineries
Research Articles
Guardians in Silence: A Deep Dive into the Work of UN Interpreters

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara