MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Psychology
Undergraduate Program In Psychology
Undergraduate Program
Psychology
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Established in 1999, the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Undergraduate Program Psychology guarantees the quality of implementing psychology education activities to provide institutional credibility and maintain an academic atmosphere.

The Undergraduate Program in Psychology is always committed to preparing graduates who can compete globally by providing quality education and international qualification standards. Armed with the ability to conduct interviews, observations, and psychological tests based on local wisdom and agro-industry, graduates of the Undergraduate Program in Psychology will become psychological scientists and psychologists who can carry out education, research, and community service in psychology. With various academic and non-academic achievements obtained by its students, the Undergraduate Program in Psychology appeals to future students with an interest and talent in psychology.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

psikologi@usu.ac.id

Undergraduate Program in Psychology

Accredited Very Good

5757/SK/BAN-PT/Ak.KP/S/VIII/2022

Vision of Undergraduate Program in Psychology

To become a study program that has academic excellence as a barometer of scientific progress that can compete at a global world level.

Mission of Undergraduate Program in Psychology

Education

Organize undergraduate psychology education is a forum for character development and professionalism of human resources based on scientific studies, morals, and conscience.

Agent of Change

Produce psychology graduates who can become actors of change in empowering local wisdom and developing agro-industry based on religious morals, culture, and psychological code of ethics, and have competitiveness at national and international levels.

Academic Quality

Carrying out education, research, and community service in psychology to improve academic quality is beneficial for changing people's lives by prioritizing local wisdom.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Fundamentals of Psychology

Psychology Assessment

Psychology Intervention

Psychology Research and Measurement

Social Psychology

Industry and Organizational Behaviour

Education Psychology

Clinical Psychology

Development Psychology

Required Courses

Contact Us
Undergraduate Program in Psychology
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Dr. Mansyur No.7, Padang Bulan, Medan, Sumatera Utara 20155

(+62)-618220122

psikologi@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara