MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Vocational Education
Diploma Program In Tour And Travel Operations
Diploma Program
Tour and Travel Operations
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Diploma Program in Travel and Tourism at the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) was established in 1987 as a vocational education provider in travel and tourism. This study program focuses on the mastery and application of theory in the science of travel and tourism.

Mentored by experienced and knowledgeable teaching staff, the Diploma Program in Travel and Tourism is committed to preparing graduates to become experts or professional reviewers, researchers in the field of tourism, and professionals with cross-cutting skills, such as in tour guiding entrepreneurship, and hospitality management.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

D3perjalananwisata@usu.ac.id

Diploma Program in Tour and Travel Operations

Accredited Very Good

3711/SK/BAN-PT/Ak.KP/D3/IV/2024

Vision of Diploma Program in Tour and Travel Operations

To become a national and international level study program as a producer of Human Resources in the field of tourism with socio-cultural insight and excellence in the Tourism and Travel specialization in 2021.

Mission of Diploma Program in Tour and Travel Operations

Education

Organizing education that is oriented towards the formation of graduates who have competence, morality, global insight and technical skills in the field of Travel and Tourism in accordance with the demands of the world of work.

Professional Graduates

Carrying out vocational education and teaching activities in the field of Travel and Tourism so as to produce reliable graduates in the fields of tourism, travel, travel agencies, travel agents, land, sea and air operations.

Service

Improve services for students and other stakeholders.

Collaboration

Elevate networks and cooperation with private and government institutions as well as professional organizations and other institutions engaged in the world of tourism at national and international levels.

Research and Devotion

Organizing applied tourism research and service to the community to assist the development of industry, government and the wider community.

Academic Environment

Develop an academic atmosphere among the academic community that allows for high productivity and quality of work.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Contact Us
Diploma Program in Tour and Travel Operations
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jalan Bioteknologi No.2 Kampus USU Medan 20155

(+62) - 618220605

D3perjalananwisata@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara