MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Vocational Curriculum Strengthening Workshop
Vocational Curriculum Strengthening Workshop
Published At
11 October 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Vocational Curriculum Strengthening Workshop
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 11 October 2023

This event is significant for USU's vocational faculty, which is still a toddler. It is essential to adjust the curriculum to be relevant to the demands of the times," said Dr. Edy

Workshop on Strengthening the Vocational Faculty Curriculum, Adapting to Transformation. The University of North Sumatra (USU) held a Workshop on Strengthening the Vocational Faculty Curriculum, which took place in the Academic Senate Room of the USU Central Bureau of Administration Building on Friday (09/29/2023).

The workshop was attended by the Director of Academic Affairs for Vocational Higher Education, Dr. Beny Bandanadjaja, ST., MT, as a speaker.

In his remarks, USU Vice-Rector I for Academic Affairs, Student Affairs, and Alumni Dr. Edy Ikhsan, SH., MA., stated that the event was significant for USU's Faculty of Vocational Education, which is still relatively new. It is essential to adjust the curriculum to the development of information technology and significant changes in the professional field.

This event is essential for USU's vocational faculty, which is still a toddler. It is important to adjust the curriculum to be relevant to the demands of the times," said Dr. Edy.

Dr. Edy Ikhsan, SH., MA., hopes that the vocational faculty can immediately adapt to the demands of transformation, both current and long-term needs. It is due to the changing times and environment, which requires flexibility in education.

"Thus, the vocational faculty is expected to make adjustments quickly. It also includes educators to improve their capabilities further," hoped Dr. Edy.

Dr. Beny Bandanadjaja, ST, MT, explained that the workshop discussed the newly issued Regulation of the Minister of Education, Culture, Research and Technology (Permendikbud Ristek) Number 53 of 2023 concerning Quality Assurance of Higher Education. In the Permendikbud Ristek, there are regulations governing vocational higher education.

"In this workshop, I will convey Permendikbud No. 53 of 2023, which is an important reference in curriculum development in higher education," said Dr. Beny.

Furthermore, Dr. Beny Bandanadjaja, ST, MT, emphasized the importance of study program compliance with Permendikbud Ristek No. 53 of 2023. Because accreditation refers to the regulation, if the study program does not comply with the existing provisions, it can impact the accreditation assessment.

Accreditation will ultimately refer to the Ministry of Education and Culture and Research and Technology Regulation. So, today, we are discussing this compliance to face the challenges within it," Dr. Beny explained.

Lastly, Dr. Beny Bandanadjaja, ST., MT., hopes that the Vocational Faculty at USU can implement a suitable higher vocational education curriculum. He also ensures that vocational education prioritizes practical experience, not just classroom learning.

"So, it's not an academic education shortened to a year to become a D3. Instead, vocational education has a higher proportion of practical aspects. So, it's not just in the classroom," Dr. Beny said.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Management
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara