MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
The Future Of Higher Education Faces Supercomplex Challenges
The Future of Higher Education Faces Supercomplex Challenges
Published At
03 August 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
The Future of Higher Education Faces Supercomplex Challenges
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 03 August 2021

USU PUBLIC RELATION-MEDAN: The future of higher education will face many very complex challenges both structurally and culturally.

This supercomplexity requires universities to develop 4 elements of capacity, namely reframing rapid change, understanding and being critical of the diversity of learning, adapting so that individuals feel comfortable in uncertainty and developing the power of critical action based on priorities.

This was conveyed by the Chairperson of the Legal Entity State University Academic Senate Assembly (MSA PTNBH), Prof. Dr. D. A. Suriamihardja in the PTNBH MSA Plenary Session, Saturday (7/10/2021). The session was held online with USU acting as the host of the event and attended by the Chair of the Academic Senate and a team from 12 PTN BH in Indonesia. This trial is a continuation of the PTNBH MSA parallel session which was held on 23 January 2021, which was facilitated by UPI in Bandung.

According to the Head of MSA PTNBH, a new formulation is needed that is not only sufficient for competency-based learning, but also must be able to develop capacity in the learning process. It is this interest that loosens the tightness of the curriculum of the study program towards an Independent Learning Campus.

"During this pandemic, we have noted the various roles and products of universities in fighting the pandemic. Hopefully, the research results can be used by the industry to be widely produced. However, a technical, economic and environmental feasibility test is required, in addition to having to adapt to the demands of the times and the market. Universities and the industrial world have realized that there are gaps that must be reduced by both parties and take a serious approach to jointly utilize the potential of human resources and existing facilities for the progress of the nation and state," he explained.

According to him, there is still a long way to go to reach the world's best ranking. An important aspect in this research is academic reputation, namely the extent to which our universities are flexible in the eyes of the world, the number of citations from published articles as well as the number of foreign students we have. To strengthen this academic reputation, universities require several efforts, such as promoting educational cooperations, research collaborations, and scientific meetings at the national and international levels.

Previously, the Chair of the Academic Senate of the University of North Sumatra who was also the Chairperson of the Organizer of the PTNBH MSA Plenary Session, Prof. Dr. Suwarto, SH., MH., stated that the forum that presented the Director General of Higher Education Prof. Ir Nizam, M.Sc., DIC, Ph D, IPU, Asean Eng, as the keynote speaker and Director of Resources of the Director General of Higher Education, Dr. Mohammad Sofwan Effendi, M.Ed., as well as the Vice Chairman of MSA PTNBH, Prof. Djoko Santoso, dr., Sp.PD., PhD., K-GH FINASIM., as a trigger it was an effort made to open a room for discussion in doing many things that are in line with the implementation of Independent Learning – Independent Campus. The Plenary Session was entitled, "Strengthening the Commitment to Implementing Independent Learning and Independent Campus, Reducing the Gap between Higher Education Culture and Industrial Culture, and Fostering Cooperation in Achieving World Class University.”

The Rector of USU, Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., in his remarks which also officially opened the session, expressed his appreciation for the organization of this activity. In addition, he reminded that there are many things that must be discussed seriously to express the wishes of universities in translating the synergy and collaboration of universities with the industrial world where between the two parties there are very basic differences regarding the final goals to be achieved. The industrial world with its main objective being commercial and income-based, is now being asked to join hands and fully synergize with the world of higher education based on academic and non-profit activities. In plain view, this fundamental difference certainly requires serious effort and thought to unite it as blended learning and achieve one goal, namely to create superior human resources, ready to use, competitive and in line with the demands of the increasingly complex world of work.

“The output to be achieved by the industry is more dominant in the form of profit or material gain. Meanwhile, universities rely their output on multi-benefits that are not only in the form of material things. Benefit for life, both in a broad and narrow sense is the main goal of various academic and tri dharma activities carried out by universities. So to reduce the wide gap of difference, of course, one must translates, unify perceptions and steps aimed at improving the quality of human resources produced by universities. Internships, research, downstream product innovation and inviting practitioners to teach are some of the many examples of activities that can be proposed by universities to transform the form of university's tri dharma activities that can be juxtaposed with the desires and needs of the industrial world," he said (YH-©ULC).

Author: Renny Julia Harahap - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Rizki Hakim Lubis - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara