MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Wins Muay Thai Bronze, Kevin Gets To Practice Online
Wins Muay Thai Bronze, Kevin Gets to Practice Online
Published At
13 October 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Wins Muay Thai Bronze, Kevin Gets to Practice Online
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 13 October 2021

“Previously I focused on Karate. However, back in 2019 there was an opportunity to join the Muay Thai branch. My dad suggested me to try,” Kevin said.

USU PR - Good news received from the Muay Thai arena at the XX National Sports Week (PON) event in Papua in 2021. One of the students from the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) from the Department of Civil Engineering, Faculty of Engineering who helped strengthen the contingent from North Sumatra, Surya Kevin Johannes Rajagukguk won a bronze medal in the 73 Kg class. This achievement certainly adds to the medal coffers of the North Sumatra contingent.

Confirmed via telephone line, Kevin explained that his fighting was stopped when he lost to a Central Java athlete who won a silver medal.

“In the end, I won bronze, Central Java won silver, and East Kalimantan athletes won gold. There were six contingents who won medals in the 73 kg Muay Thai branch," said Kevin.

As is known, the 73 kg Muay Thai number was first played in this PON. Previously, this number was played as a trial number. Although he didn't meet the target, he was satisfied with his current achievement.

"Yes, because this is the first time that it is being competed. Previously, PON only put this number as a test, the new PON was held to fight for medals. So, first we targeted gold because each of us doesn't know the power. However, I am grateful that I was able to win a bronze medal,” he said.

Kevin's struggle to achieve achievements in the XX PON event in Papua this time was not easy. The Covid-19 pandemic that attacked Indonesia also hampered the process of training camps and athlete quarantine. He said that he had time to conduct online training.

“Previously, we had training camps through the 2020 Pelatda. However, in May 2020 we have to do exercises at home. We are monitored online practice. Until finally, three months prior to the PON, we were called back to join the training camp at the Wisma Athletes Dispora North Sumatra, "said Kevin.

The athlete who was born on June 10, 2002, admitted that he had studied Muay Thai since 2019. He said that he had previously struggled in the sport of karate. However, on the advice of his father, he decided to switch to Muay Thai.

“Previously I focused on Karate. However, back in 2019 there was an opportunity to join the Muay Thai branch. My dad suggested trying,” Kevin said.

In the Karate branch, Kevin had participated in several national level championships, up to participating in the championship in Thailand. However, in the end it was Muay Thai that he felt suited him. After winning the bronze medal, he received congratulations from his parents. He said that his parents had prepared a thanksgiving ceremony after he returned to Medan. In addition, the lecturers and fellow students congratulated him. (©ULC)

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Humas - PR

News
Achievement
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara