MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
The 2022 Peksimida At USU Is A Success
The 2022 Peksimida at USU is a Success
Published At
30 August 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
The 2022 Peksimida at USU is a Success
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 30 August 2022

Director of the Directorate of Student Achievement and Alumni Relations Doli Muhammad Jafar Dalimunthe, S.E., M.Sc., explained that Peximida 2022 at USU was attended by 13 universities both public and private in North Sumatra. A total of 89 participants competed in 15 competitions.

PR USU - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is trusted to host the prestigious student achievement event of the Regional Student Art Week (Peksimida) for the North Sumatra region. This event is a screening to select the best delegates from North Sumatra who will be dispatched to the 2022 National Student Art Week (Peksiminas) at Brawijaya University, Malang.

Director of the Directorate of Student Achievement and Alumni Relations Doli Muhammad Jafar Dalimunthe, S.E., M.Sc., explained that Peximida 2022 at USU was attended by 13 universities both public and private in North Sumatra. A total of 89 participants competed in 15 competitions.

“We will choose the best delegates from each race that is competed. Hopefully whoever represents North Sumatra can be the best at the Peksiminas event in October," said Doli at the opening of the 2022 Peksimida at the USU Auditorium on Monday (8/22/2022).

Doli explained that the Peximida competition is a routine activity every year which is held from the regional to the national level. Peksimida itself aims to provide a forum for students to improve their quality and practical skills in the arts, both sound art, performing arts, literary arts, fine arts, dance, poster design, comic strips, and so on.

“We would also like to thank the Indonesian Student Art Development Board for the North Sumatra Region for trusting USU as the host for this year's Peximida. The trust given will be fully utilized with full responsibility by USU to guarantee the best service in the organization of each race," he said.

The Head of the Indonesian Student Art Development Board for the North Sumatra Region, Prof. Dr. Sahat Siagian, M.Pd., in his speech was impressed by the welcome of USU as the host who has provided good facilities and services for the participants and the jury. "There are also quite a number of participants this year, indicating that the committee has succeeded in raising the enthusiasm of participants from every existing university," he said.

Prof. Sahat Siagian reminded that the delegates who have won at the Peksimida 2022 will become the delegates of North Sumatra at the Peksiminas 2022. "Therefore, from any university he must be supported and must be optimized to achieve the best at the Peksiminas 2022 so that the name of North Sumatra is fragrant at the national level, " he hoped.

Prof. Sahat also advised the delegates of each race that will go to Malang to continue practicing and stay focused on giving their best with all their maximum abilities. "USU as the host has made an extraordinary contribution to the 2022 Peksimida event, therefore the selected delegates must be able to become champions at the 2022 Peksiminas," he said.

Chairman of the Committee Prof. Drs. Mauly Purba, M.A accompanied by Committee Secretary Rahma Yurliani, S.Psi, M.Psi, thanked the 13 universities in North Sumatra who participated in the success of the 2022 Peksimida at USU. In this event, the Universitas Sumatera Utara became the university that sent the most delegates to the 2022 Peksiminas, followed by the second most from Medan State University.

The closing ceremony itself was lively by presenting various entertainments such as a special performance of the USU El-Shaddai Choir which just won gold at the international choir competition in Tokyo, Japan. Winners of the vocal arts competitions, such as seriosa, pop, dangdut and vocal groups were also displayed so that the atmosphere of the closing night was lively. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Campus Life
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara