MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU FIB Declaration Of Anti-Drugs, Commitment To Achievement And Shines
USU FIB Declaration of Anti-Drugs, Commitment to Achievement and Shines
Published At
29 October 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU FIB Declaration of Anti-Drugs, Commitment to Achievement and Shines
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 29 October 2021

"Because of that I also know that FIB actually has a uniqueness that can be sold and marketable to support the internationalization of universities. The study programs at FIB have their own values and characteristics to be able to encourage internationalization programs, therefore in the future let's focus on this together," he said.

PR USU - The Faculty of Cultural Sciences (FIB) of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held an anti-drug declaration action in collaboration with the Anti-Drug Institute (LAN) and the National Anti-Drug Movement (Gannas) of North Sumatra Province, Friday (10/22/2020). The event was also coupled with a performance of the creativity of outstanding students and lecturers of USU FIB.

Deputy Rector I Dr, Edy Ikhsan, MA, who opened the event, appreciated USU's FIB steps in carrying out this anti-drug movement. "I hope this can be followed by other faculties. The university is also committed to eradicating drugs," he said.

Dr. Edy said that he also felt responsible for the incident that happened to FIB students some time ago. He has this sense of belonging, because apart from teaching at the USU Faculty of Law, he is also a Dutch language lecturer at the History Study Program.

"Because of that I also know that FIB actually has a uniqueness that can be sold and marketable to support the internationalization of universities. The study programs at FIB have their own values ​​and characteristics to be able to encourage internationalization programs, therefore in the future let's focus on this together," he said.

The Vice Rector for academics, student affairs and alumni also praised USU's FIB students who excel at national and international levels. "Our students are also excel and have high quality, USU will support these coaching programs for outstanding students, FIB may create the development scheme, we will pay attention to it," he said.

USU FIB Dean Dr. T. Thyrhaya Zein, MA accompanied by Vice Dean I Prof. Mauly Purba, PhD, Deputy Dean II Dra. Heristina Dewi, MPd and Deputy Dean III Mhd Pujiono, PhD explained that the declaration carried out today is a form of commitment from lecturers, staff and USU FIB students to fight drug trafficking and abuse in the campus environment, especially at the Faculty of Cultural Sciences that we love.

"Through this declaration, I would like to remind you that we all have a shared role and responsibility to eradicate drug trafficking. The recent incident, we must use as a momentum to strengthen our collaboration and commitment to further improve student achievement both at the international and national levels. We must be sure and believe that FIB students are creative and cultured students so that the negative stigma attached to the result of recent events can be replaced with a positive assessment," she said.

In this declaration, our students also display their creativities some are reading poetry, playing music, singing, dancing, drama and others. "Through the creativity of our students, FIB wants to show that what actually is available at USU FIB," the Dean of USU FIB said.

The event was also attended by the chairmen and secretaries of the study program, outstanding students of FIB USU, lecturers, employees and elements of the department's student association. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - PR

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara