MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Is Ready To Create A Corruption-Free Regional Integrity Zone
USU is Ready to Create a Corruption-Free Regional Integrity Zone
Published At
14 July 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU is Ready to Create a Corruption-Free Regional Integrity Zone
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 14 July 2021

MEDAN - USU Public Relations: Integrity zone is the main requirement in producing superior and competitive human resources. To achieve this, high integrity is needed and supported by three main targets, namely a clean bureaucracy, a capable bureaucracy and a bureaucracy that has prime public services.

This was stated by the Chancellor of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos, M.Si, who was represented by the USU Vice Chancellor IV, Prof. Drs. State Affairs, as well as the Testing of Program Performance Audits for Higher Education Services, which took place in the USU Academic Senate Meeting Room, Wednesday (6/23/2021). 

Organizational governance is suspected as one of the indicators to create a work atmosphere that has integrity. The old pattern that requires a long and convoluted bureaucratic flow is expected to be pruned and minimized.  

“Pruning or streamlining the organization is one of the demands in implementing a fast, efficient and targeted bureaucracy. Where old patterns such as layered bureaucratic paths allow for slowdown in services and information, they must be completely abandoned because they are not in accordance with the demands of bureaucratic reform itself,” said the USU Chancellor.  

The number of human resources used is no longer a benchmark for the excellence of an organization's governance. It takes a qualified ability and good mastery of the task. In addition, the use of technology is a necessity in the midst of today's developments.  

“Service acceleration is no longer solely directed at increasing the number of human resources, but also focuses on vital tasks and functions as well as increasing the role of technology in assisting the service aspect itself. So the need for human resources with a combination of hard skills and soft skills is an urgent need for universities to have a service bureaucracy that is leaner and able to move faster," he said.  

He believes that improving services in the USU area will create public trust in these higher education institutions. Public trust is the main capital to run all USU programs, including campus internationalization. 

“With excellent public services and corruption-free university governance, it will automatically increase public trust in the Universitas Sumatera Utara. In addition, it is able to act as an external driving force to support maximum achievement in the performance of the Universitas Sumatera Utara towards the internationalization of higher education," he said.  

The visitation activity began with a discussion session held online and offline. After that, the group headed to the USU Faculty of Nursing to directly review the preparation of the work unit towards a Corruption-Free Area. As is known, the Faculty of Nursing is a pioneer in realizing a Corruption-Free Area and is expected to motivate other work units.  

Also attending the event were the Inspectorate General Team of the Ministry of Education and Culture, Masrul Latif as the person in charge, Salwin MD as quality controller, Riza Wularsih as technical controller, Dasuki as team leader and Thessalonika Ruth Damayati as team members. Also present were USU's vice chancellors, university secretaries, rector's expert staff, deans and vice deans of the USU Faculty of Nursing and the USU bureaucratic reformation team.

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Rizki Hakim Lubis - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara