MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Medicine
Specialist-1 Program In Pulmonology
Spesialist-1 Program
Pulmonology
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Specialist Program in Pulmonology of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is a study program that focuses on the diagnosis and treatment of health problems in the respiratory tract, lungs, and other respiratory organs.

As one of the oldest pulmonary disease specialist providers in Indonesia, the Specialist Program in Pulmonology is committed to continuously improving the quality of education to become more qualified to produce competent pulmonology specialists and prioritize the medical code of ethics for the advancement of health workers in Indonesia. Students who have completed this study program will hold the Pulmonology Specialist (Sp.P.) degree.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

prodiparu@gmail.com

Specialist-1 Program in Pulmonology

Accredited Excellent

No. 0285/LAM-PTKes/Akr/Spe/IV/2022

Vision of Specialist-1 Program in Pulmonology

To realize the FK USU Pulmonology & Respiratory Medicine Study Program as a quality educational institution by 2024, towards a center of excellence for tropical medicine and thoracic preventive oncology in Southeast Asia in support of the vision of Universitas Sumatera Utara to become an educational institution with competitive excellence fields of TALENTA.

Mission of Specialist-1 Program in Pulmonology

Quality of Education, Research, and Community Service

To enhance the quality of education, research, and community service consistently, effectively, and efficiently, in accordance with the advancements in pulmonary and respiratory medical science and technology, with good faculty governance and a good quality assurance system.

Agent of Change

To produce graduates who become agents of change as a force of modernization in the lives of the wider society, who have scientific competence, relevance, and strong competitiveness as well as professional and ethical intellectual behavior within the framework of interprofessional education/collaboration (IPE/IPC).

Public Leadership

To realize public leadership through the benefits of research and community service that impacts epidemiology, especially tropical diseases and thoracic preventive oncology, which is oriented toward product and scientific development.

Independent and Professional

To realize an independent and professional faculty in the management and development of institutions and build cooperation with other institutions at national and international levels, especially in the fields of tropical medicine and thoracic preventive oncology.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Pulmonary Physiology

Occupational Lung

Pulmonary Infection

Asma and Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease

Oncology

Pleura

Interventional Pulmonology

Immunology and Interstitial Lung Disease

Contact Us
Specialist-1 Program in Pulmonology
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Dr. Mansyur No. 66, Merdeka, Kec. Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20154

(061) - 82116264

prodiparu@gmail.com

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara