MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU’s Vice Rector III Ask The Study Program To Follow Up MoU And MoA That Have Been Carried Out With Partners
USU’s Vice Rector III Ask the Study Program to Follow Up MoU and MoA that have been Carried Out with Partners
Published At
26 August 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU’s Vice Rector III Ask the Study Program to Follow Up MoU and MoA that have been Carried Out with Partners
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 26 August 2021

USU PUBLIC RELATION – MEDAN : The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is currently 69 years old on August 20, 2021. This momentum is an opportunity to reflect on the efforts that have been made and their achievements, as well as to focus more seriously on the planning for the next stage, in line with the USU Strategic Plan phase II that has been set for 2020-2024, which is to become an international standard university characterized by local excellence.

USU Vice Rector III, Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitu Hasibuan, S.Si., M.Sc., Apt, confirmed this in her speech as a coach at a routine morning call (known as Apel Pagi) at USU, Monday (8/23/2021), which took place in a hybrid manner. According to her, one of the efforts that USU can maximize to achieve this goal is to open a wider space for cooperation with various parties, both with the Government and the industrial/private world.

This is expected to make a significant contribution not only in accelerating the work programs that have been established in the Merdeka Learning corridor at the Merdeka Campus, but also in increasing the income of USU which is made possible by USU’s status as PTNBH. An increase in income is absolutely necessary as the main support for the implementation of various forms of academic and non-academic activities and their development, as well as the availability of adequate facilities and infrastructure. Given the significant increase in revenue in supporting the achievement of effective service performance. 

During these 8 months in 2021, the Universitas Sumatera Utara has established various important collaborations marked by the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) and Memorandum of Agreement (MoA) with various parties in the corridor of implementing the Tri Dharma of Higher Education. We hope that all study programs and work units at the Universitas Sumatera Utara can immediately follow up on the MoU that has been established between USU and partners and implement it in the activities of the Tri Dharma of Higher Education, namely Education, Research, and Community Service,” Vice Rector III said.

The cooperation activities that have been established are expected to play a role in supporting USU’s income generating, which is the capital and strength that can be used by the Univeristas Sumatera Utara in improving its educational services so that USU can become the best university.

No less important is the serious effort that we must make in increasing the number of publications from our lecturers in reputable international journals, as well as maximizing research, community service and innovation activities. We can continue to intensify cooperation in publication and reserach activities with other universities, so that it is hoped that it can boost the rank of the Universitas Sumatera Utara on assessment carried out by various institutions, both at national and international levels,” she said.

In addition, she also reminded that innovation is a form of academic responsibility taht must be strengthened and supported so that resulting innovation products can benefit the public interest. Through innovation products, academics are able to implement all their knowlege and competenties in response to various social problems that are being faced by this nation. ((C)ULC)

 

Author: Renny Julia Harahap - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - PR

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara