MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Engineering
Master's Program In Electrical Engineering
Master Program
Electrical Engineering
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Master's Program in Electrical Engineering has been established since 2007, making it one of the relatively new master study programs at Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), especially at the Faculty of Engineering (FT). The curriculum in this program is designed to explore courses and research in various fields, such as automatic control, power systems, communications, and computer engineering. With a focus on in-depth understanding and practical skills, this program aims to help students master the latest technology in electrical engineering.

The vision of this Master's Program in Electrical Engineering is to become a dignified and reputable master study program, with excellence in the fields of power quality, embedded and wireless systems. In addition, this program also aims to produce graduates who have global competitiveness. Graduates of the Master's Program in Electrical Engineering have broad job prospects in various industries, such as electronic engineering, telecommunications, automation, and many more. They are ready to take on roles as engineers, researchers, or project leaders, bringing positive impacts in various sectors that require expertise in electrical engineering. Students who complete this study program will earn a Master of Engineering (M.T) degree and are ready to contribute to the industrial world with their knowledge and skills.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

mte@usu.ac.id

Master's Program in Electrical Engineering

Accredited Unggul

0354/SK/LAM Teknik/AM/XII/2023

Vision of Master's Program in Electrical Engineering

To become a dignified and reputable Master's Program in Electrical Engineering that has excellence in the field of power quality, embedded and wireless systems, and has graduates who are globally competitive.

Mission of Master's Program in Electrical Engineering

International Competitiveness

Organizing higher education refers to the development of power quality, embedded systems and wireless technology, and producing graduates who are dignified, innovative with integrity, resilient and wise and able to compete at the international level.

Innovative Research

Organizing innovative and dynamic research in the field of power quality, embedded and wireless systems to answer challenges in the era of industrial revolution 4.0.

Community Service

Organizing community service that is beneficial for changing lives for the better through the real implementation of the field of expertise in power quality, embedded and wireless systems.

Digital

Organizing and developing digital-based education.

Partnership

Establish and develop partnerships with other institutions, both nationally and internationally, in the fields of academics, research, and community service related to power quality, embedded systems, and wireless technology.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Embedded System

Power Quality

Wireless and Mobile Communication Technology

Contact Us
Master's Program in Electrical Engineering
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jalan Tri Dharma, Pintu 4, USU, Medan City

(+62) - 85296303816

mte@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara