MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Attends Education Expo In The United States
USU Attends Education Expo in the United States
Published At
02 June 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Attends Education Expo in the United States
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 02 June 2023

"This activity is a platform for international educators, especially USU, to build cooperation and international partnerships in exchanging knowledge, ideas, and global perspectives related to the world of education. From this activity, USU has also succeeded in recording agreements with several universities from other countries," said Prof. Mury

 

Public Relations USU - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) attended and was actively involved in "The 75th NAFSA Annual Conference & Expo" which was held on May 30 - June 2, 2023 at the Walter E. Washington Convention Center, Washington D.C., United States. This activity is the largest international higher education exhibition and conference attended by more than 100 higher education institutions from various countries.

 

USU Rector Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos, M.Si, who was present in person at the activity, explained that USU's involvement in The 75th NAFSA Annual Conference & Expo (NAFSA 75) in the United States was to establish collaboration with various universities from various countries. USU needs to convey the campus internationalization program offered to all NAFSA participants who attend, such as Summer Courses, Student Mobility, International Mobility Staff (IMS), Sabbatical Leave, international class, and so on.

 

"This activity is a platform for international educators, especially USU, to build cooperation and international partnerships in exchanging knowledge, ideas, and global perspectives related to the world of education. From this activity, USU has also succeeded in recording agreements with several universities from other countries," said Prof. Mury in his written statement, Thursday (1/6/2023).

 

Some of the agreements include with California State University, San Bernardino (CSUSBs), namely carrying out 2 collaborations. First, student exchange between USU and CSUBs. On this occasion, USU students will get a discount. Second, conducting further discussions on the dual degree program (2+2 Transfer Articulation Program). On this occasion, appropriate study programs and curriculum exploration will be determined.

 

"Next, the University of California, Irvine (UCI), is willing to host USU students in the Student Mobility Program. Then, with the IMT School for Advanced Studies Lucca, Italy (IMT), USU will conduct a pre-selection to recommend prospective doctoral students for USU Masters graduates and/or USU lecturers who wish to continue their Masters in Italy. These candidates will be selected by the final committee at IMT and those who pass will be given a full scholarship to continue their PhD at IMT," explained the rector.

 

An agreement has also been made with the Ludwigshafen University of Business and Society, Germany (LUBS) to collaborate where USU will host students from LUBS to complete 1 semester at USU. For this, it is necessary to conduct a selection of courses that meet the International Human Resources Management and Organization Study Program at LUBS.

 

"Several collaborations (with international universities) are still being followed up. The program offer that most attracts the attention of universities from outside is the Summer Course Program. Several universities will send their representatives to participate in the USU Summer Course Program," he said.

 

NAFSA is the largest association in the world dedicated to internationalizing education and exchange. The theme for 2023 is "Inspiring an Inclusive Future" with keynote speaker Nadia Murad (Nobel Peace Prize recipient in 2018). The message conveyed in the theme is that getting an education belongs to everyone without exception.

 

Prof. Mury said that USU is participating in NAFSA for the first time because it is considered very important to introduce USU to the international academic community and as a way to accelerate adaptation to change as interpreted by Transformation Towards the Ultimate.

 

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Public Relations

Interviewee: Prof. Muryanto Amin - Rector USU

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Public Relations

News
World Class University
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara