MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Vice Minister Of Home Affairs Discusses Revision Of Election Law At FISIP USU
Vice Minister of Home Affairs Discusses Revision of Election Law at FISIP USU
Published At
08 February 2025
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Vice Minister of Home Affairs Discusses Revision of Election Law at FISIP USU
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Saturday, 08 February 2025

“I have an academic background, and I believe that dialog and debate will produce better decisions. Therefore, we are opening up space for campuses to discuss freely,” said the Vice Minister of Trade.

Public Relations USU - Vice Minister of Home Affairs of the Republic of Indonesia (Wamendagri RI), Dr. Bima Arya Sugiarto, visited the Faculty of Social and Political Sciences of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (FISIP USU) to provide material and discuss the revision of the General Election Law. The discussion occurred in the Multipurpose Hall of FISIP USU, on Friday (07/02/2025).

The Dean of FISIP USU, Dr. Hatta Ridho, S.Sos., MSP, welcomed the government's initiative to open a discussion room on revising the Election Law. He stated that unifying the two election law regimes is crucial to synchronize regulations and create a better electoral system. Thus, it is expected that institutional recruitment at the central and regional levels can be more transparent and professional.

“If these laws are unified, it will be easier to ensure institutional recruitment that is more transparent and in accordance with democratic principles,” he said.

The Dean of FISIP USU also emphasized that FISIP USU has long contributed to studies and research related to election law reform. His party participated in discussions with election organizers on various occasions and provided policy input.

“We often hold discussions with election organizers, both at the KPU and Bawaslu levels. We also have many experts who have been involved in election policy studies,” he added.

In his presentation, Wamendagri RI highlighted several articles in the election law that were considered contradictory and needed to be improved. He emphasized that regulations must be unified to prevent confusion in the field and provide legal certainty for election organizers.

“In the Election Law, only the main actors are punished, while in the Pilkada Law, both can be subject to legal sanctions. This is only one of many contradictions that must be harmonized,” said Dr. Bima.

Furthermore, Wamendagri RI explained that the revision of this law is very important, considering that election laws are the most frequently challenged by the Constitutional Court. According to him, more than a hundred lawsuits have been filed, which shows that many aspects still need to be improved to make the electoral system more transparent and fair.

“Throughout the history of the Constitutional Court, these two laws are the most frequently challenged by citizens. There are more than a hundred lawsuits,” he added.

The Vice Minister of Home Affairs emphasized that the process of revising this law must involve various parties, especially academics and the community. He stated that the Ministry of Home Affairs opened a discussion room to hear various inputs. With the participation of campuses and academics, this revision is hoped to produce a more mature and comprehensive policy.

“I have an academic background, and I believe that dialog and debate will produce better decisions. Therefore, we are opening up space for campuses to discuss freely,” said the Vice Minister of Trade.

The event also allowed students to express their questions and views. This open and participatory discussion is expected to begin a more inclusive revision process, resulting in a more transparent and effective election policy in Indonesia.

News
SDGs
SDGs 16
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara