MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Social Science And Political Science
Undergraduate Program In Political Science
Undergraduate Program
Political Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Undergraduate Program in Political Science at the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) was established in 2001 and has obtained A accreditation. The program is responsible for the study of socio-political phenomena at home and abroad.

With three concentrations of study, namely Indonesian Politics, Comparative Politics, and Islamic Politics, we have expert lecturers who have extensive experience in the field of politics. Supported by adequate facilities and infrastructure, we are committed to producing students who become competent political science candidates. They are ready for careers in various government agencies, non-governmental organizations, and private companies.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

s1politikfisipusu@gmail.com

Undergraduate Program in Political Science

Accredited Excellent

No. 1346/SK/BAN-PT/Ak.KP/S/IV/2023

Vision of Undergraduate Program in Political Science

Becoming a Study Program that has academic excellence in the study of political science and applied research that is competitive at the global level in 2022

Mission of Undergraduate Program in Political Science

Institutional Capacity

Increase institutional capacity in implementing teaching and learning, research, and public service.

Agent of Change

Producing graduates who become agents of change as a force of modernization in the life of the wider community, who have scientific competence, relevance, and strong competitiveness, and who behave with ethical scholarship.

Information Center

Become a center for information and applied research in local politics and elections.

Collaboration

Establish mutually beneficial partnerships with all stakeholders and educational partners.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Comparative Politics

Indonesian Politics

Islamic Politics

Contact Us
Undergraduate Program in Political Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Dr. A. Sofian No.1A, Padang Bulan, Kec. Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20222

(+62) - 618211965

s1politikfisipusu@gmail.com

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara