MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Rector Inaugurates USU Structural Officials
USU Rector Inaugurates USU Structural Officials
Published At
11 October 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Rector Inaugurates USU Structural Officials
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 11 October 2023

I pray that the newly appointed officials can carry out this position by their duties and functions, and always be guided by applicable regulations," said Prof. Mury.

USU PR - Rector of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si inaugurated Structural Officials within Universitas Sumatera Utara, which took place at the USU Faculty of Economics and Business Hall Building on Monday, (02/10/2023).

In his remarks, the USU Rector appreciated the dedication given by the old officials at USU and congratulated the newly appointed officials. The USU Rector emphasized the importance of creating a positive work atmosphere. Because it is important to be a driving force for USU's progress in a better direction.

"I pray that the newly appointed officials can carry out this position by their duties and functions, and always be guided by applicable regulations," said Prof. Muryanto.

To achieve various targets, especially in the Rector's performance contract. Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si stated that during their three years of leadership at USU, various improvements have been made to develop a new identity as a global achievement university and improve the performance of human resources.

"Completing three years of work, we continue to make improvements in many ways aimed at creating a new branding for USU," said Prof. Muryanto.

Moving on from the theory of "Need for Achievement", regarding individuals having an intrinsic need to achieve and succeed in various activities, the USU Rector believes that the appointment and placement of human resources based on competence, dedication, integrity, and skills will support the university's work program in the future. Thus, the quality of education increases and reaches international standards.

"To carry out all activities and achieve goals, we are sure that all work programs of university leaders in the remaining time will run well and on target," explained Prof. Muryanto.

To ensure efficiency and the achievement of improved quality of university services, the USU Rector hopes that the inauguration of new officials will bring new energy and enthusiasm that will strengthen USU. With the support of human resources who are competent, skilled, and responsive to change quickly and effectively.

"Although there have been quite several good achievements and accomplishments, both institutionally and academically. I hope that the work we do still needs to be optimized," hoped Prof. Muryanto.

With the fresh spirit of the newly appointed officials, the newly appointed Head of Research, Community Service, and Cooperation of USU, Melina Ramona S.E., hopes that USU will continue to move forward and achieve better achievements.

"I hope that USU will get a new spirit from the newly appointed officials," Melina hoped.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Muhammad Andriansyah - Humas

News
Management
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara