MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Lecturer Gives Shallots Paste Processing Training
USU Lecturer Gives Shallots Paste Processing Training
Published At
27 December 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Lecturer Gives Shallots Paste Processing Training
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 27 December 2021

Mimi Nurminah stated, shallots are one type of horticultural product that has perishable properties (very easily damaged). At the time of the main harvest, the price of this shallot becomes very low. If farmers want to delay marketing until prices return to normal, it will actually cause damage which ultimately causes losses to farmers. Seeing the problems experienced by these farmers, it is necessary to have a processing technology that can extend the shelf life and increase the added value of shallot products.

USU PR - The Universitas Sumatera Utara Lecturer Team from the Food Technology Study Program, Faculty of Agriculture has carried out Community Service (PKM) activities, located in Ria-Ria Village, Polung Humbang Hasundutan District, North Sumatra. The activity was held in the form of training to increase the added value of shallot commodities through processing, into food products to meet the domestic and export markets. This is done in an effort to achieve food security and farmer welfare, which was carried out on December 4, 2021 ago.

The team of lecturers who did the service was chaired by Mimi Nurminah, STP, M.Si., consisting of Dr. Hotnida Sinaga, M.Phil, and Linda Masniary Lubis, STP, M.Si.

Mimi Nurminah said that this activity is a series of activities for lecturers to serve on the Humbang Hasundutan national food estate project, which is aimed at members of farmer groups. This training is aimed at farmers who grow shallots.

Mimi Nurminah stated, shallots are one type of horticultural product that has perishable properties (very easily damaged). At the time of the main harvest, the price of this shallot becomes very low. If farmers want to delay marketing until prices return to normal, it will actually cause damage which ultimately causes losses to farmers. Seeing the problems experienced by these farmers, it is necessary to have a processing technology that can extend the shelf life and increase the added value of shallot products.

One of the functions of processing shallots is to maintain quality before use. Utilization of shallots through diversification of processed shallot products that have been marketed include fried onions and onion flour. One alternative to processed shallots that has not been widely developed is onion paste. This onion paste processing aims to be practical when using it in cooking. Shallot paste is also an alternative to seasoning products. As a seasoning preparation, onion paste must have a strong flavor, so that it can give a distinctive aroma when used.

The service activity was also attended by the Deputy Dean III of the USU Faculty of Agriculture Prof. Dr. Ir Elisa Julianti, MSi and the village head as well as the Ria-Ria Village secretary and community leaders. On that occasion, Mimi Nurminah delivered training and hands-on practice of making shallot paste, making shallot powder, product processing hygiene and sanitation, as well as product quality control including quality control and online marketing introduction.

The Community Service Team for the Food Technology Study Program, Faculty of Agriculture, USU also donated tools for processing, namely dryers, slicing machines and crushing/pasta-making machines, so that they can be used by farmers who want to increase the added value of agricultural products by processing them into food products.

Through community service activities carried out by the Community Service Team of the Food Technology Study Program, USU Faculty of Agriculture, it is hoped that the community will be motivated to make derivative products from shallots in the form of fried onions, onion powder, and onion paste so that they are able to sell their products and improve the family's economy. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Humas - Humas

News
Education
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara