MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
University Activity
Teens Are Vulnerable To Caries
Teens are Vulnerable to Caries
Published At
19 October 2022
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
Teens are Vulnerable to Caries
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Wednesday, 19 October 2022

In a healthy body there is a strong soul. This sentence is contained in a Latin expression, which implies how important it is to take care of the health of the body to get balance and strength of the soul. One of the most important body parts that must be taken care of is the teeth and mouth.

Realizing this, the USU Faculty of Dentistry Lecturer Team carried out community service through health promotion counseling, as well as dental and oral health maintenance training and training on how to brush teeth. There was also an introduction to dental radiography examinations and the installation of a sink at SMP Islamiyah Belawan, Medan Belawan District, Thursday (7/21/2022) and evaluation activities for re-testing the results of counseling, Saturday (8/13/2022).

The service implementation team installed a sink to support health improvement so that school residents could wash their hands before eating and brush their teeth after eating. The provision of educational posters on how to brush teeth, how to wash hands and dental radiography examinations as well as the delivery of trash bins were also carried out.

Team Leader Drg. Cek Dara Manja, Sp.RKG(K) stated that this activity emerged from the encouragement to help students improve their health, especially dental and oral health. "Adolescence is a period that is vulnerable to dental caries, if you do not have good and correct habits in brushing your teeth," he said.

In this activity, they were trained on how to brush their teeth properly, how to wash their hands properly and the introduction of dental radiographic examinations needed as a supporting examination in dental care. It is hoped that by being given counseling and training, students can be more optimal in maintaining their health, especially dental and oral health in daily activities. Counseling and training were carried out in two visits, both indoors and outdoors with 100 students and 22 teachers, which were divided into three phases.

The method in this counseling and training, on the first visit, used a combination of lectures, discussions, and exercises directly with phantom teeth, as well as washing hands and brushing teeth together at the sink that had been installed. Drg. Cek Dara Manja, Sp.RKG(K), said, “brushing your teeth should be done twice, namely after breakfast and before going to bed at night. Meanwhile, hand washing is carried out using 6 standard WHO steps with at least 60 seconds, and don't be afraid to check your teeth with the dentist and perform radiographic examinations if necessary."

At the next visit, an evaluation was carried out by distributing questionnaires containing questions about how to brush teeth, how to wash hands and examination of dental radiographs. There was also a re-examination of the way to brush teeth and wash hands directly, to observe whether there was a change in students' attitudes for the better. "Since there is a sink in the school, students have become diligent in washing their hands before and after activities," said the Principal of SMP Islamiyah Belawan.

Before the session ends, students are reminded to apply the training that has been taught consistently, so that they can improve their general health, especially teeth and mouth. The service team consists of drg. Dewi Kartika, MDSc, ​​drg. Maria NH Sitanggang, MDSc and drg. Ika Astrina, MDSc, ​​assisted by several students of the Profession Program of the Faculty of Dentistry, namely Fitria Desiana Siregar, SKG, Sheilla Suhaila Matondang, SKG, Nahya Fathanah Bentara, SKG, Fitriya Ningrum, SKG, Sonia Ayunita Saragih, SKG, Dhea Raihani, SKG and Intania Elfitria, SKG. The activity went well with the enthusiasm shown by the students and teachers who participated in the activity. (RJ – ©ULC)

University Activity
Community Service Activity
Find More Activity
University Activity
USU Lecturer Concern on the Extinction of Orangutan Tapanuli
University Activity
USU professor turns shrimp shell waste into face serum
University Activity
USU Research Collaboration Lowers Stunting Rate in Sergai

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara