MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Deli Science Nursing 2024 Enlivened The 15th Anniversary Of The USU Faculty Of Nursing
Deli Science Nursing 2024 Enlivened the 15th Anniversary of the USU Faculty of Nursing
Published At
20 November 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
Deli Science Nursing 2024 Enlivened the 15th Anniversary of the USU Faculty of Nursing
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Wednesday, 20 November 2024

“This activity is very extraordinary, supporting the development of students' scientific and emotional intelligence. We hope that our graduates will be able to provide holistic services, both bio, psycho, social, and spiritual,” said the Dean of FKep USU.

USU PR - The Faculty of Nursing of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held its annual “Deli Science Nursing 2024” event. This event is one of a series of celebrations of the 15th Anniversary of the Faculty of Nursing, which also commemorates the 25th anniversary of the establishment of the nursing study program. It took place at the USU Faculty of Nursing, on Sunday (11/17/2024).

The Dean of the USU Faculty of Nursing, Dr. Dudut Tanjung, S.Kp., M.Kep., Sp.KMB, said that this activity really supports student development, both in terms of scientific and emotional intelligence so that it can create graduates who are able to provide holistic services in the future.

“This activity is very extraordinary, supporting the development of students' scientific and emotional intelligence. We hope that our graduates will be able to provide holistic services, both bio, psycho, social, and spiritual,” said the Dean of FKep USU.

With the theme Bright: Boost Resolution In This Generation Being Health Champion, this event aims to encourage health workers to improve their professionalism and knowledge. The Dean of the USU Faculty of Nursing added that this event was not only a competition but also a means of honing students' soft skills through interaction with participants from various institutions throughout Indonesia.

The committee chairman, Ahmad Ridho Pratama, explained that the event involved 250 teams from 16 national health institutions, consisting of undergraduate and professional students. One of the main attractions this year was the Brain War Arena competition, an innovation inspired by the popular strategy game that characterizes the event.

“What sets this year apart is innovations such as the Brain War Arena competition, inspired by the trending strategy game. This characterizes this year's event,” Ridho explained.

The Chairperson of the Committee also added that although the preparation was quite challenging due to the short time, the committee managed to present many updates, from decorations to competitions that were more mature than the previous year. In addition to Deli Science Nursing, USU's Faculty of Nursing will organize the peak event of the Anniversary on Tuesday.

The Chairperson of the Faculty of Nursing BEM, Naufal Zain, expressed his pride in the efforts of the Faculty of Nursing students, who were able to show innovation and contribution at the national level through this activity. Naufal Zain hopes that the whole series of activities can strengthen the synergy between students and lecturers.

“This proves that Faculty of Nursing students have great potential to innovate and contribute at the national level,” he said.

News
SDGs
SDGs 3
SDGs 9
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara