MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Faculty Of Law Anniversary Webinar Series 3: Reflections On The Handling Of Corruption Crimes
USU Faculty of Law Anniversary Webinar Series 3: Reflections on the Handling of Corruption Crimes
Published At
25 January 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Faculty of Law Anniversary Webinar Series 3: Reflections on the Handling of Corruption Crimes
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 25 January 2022

"Corruption occurs in various fields either in the judiciary, in the political, economic, social, defense and security, health, and so on," said Dr. Mahmul.

USU PR - Faculty of Law (FH) Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held a Scientific Week Webinar Series 3 Legal Reflections with the theme "Reflections on the Handling of Corruption Crimes in 2021" with the sub-theme "Breakthrough for Handling Cases Between the Prosecutor's Office and the Corruption Eradication Commission." The webinar was held via Zoom Meeting on Wednesday (1/19/2022).

In his remarks, the Dean of USU Faculty of Law, Dr. Mahmul Siregar, SH., M.Hum said, the high level of corruption which is difficult to eradicate is one of the crucial problems faced by the Indonesian nation today.

"Corruption occurs in various fields either in the judiciary, in the political, economic, social, defense and security, health, and so on," he said.

According to the Dean, this criminal act of corruption causes effects that spread to various fields of life and the national development system. Then, corruption also causes a bad reputation, high country risk, weak public services, and various other negative accesses.

“Public services are bad, facilities and infrastructure are of inadequate quality and quantity. In fact, the high number of corruption is also an obstacle to our efforts to restore the economy to invite investors," he said.

However, Dr. Mahmul said that Indonesia is a state of law, so the handling of corruption must be based on the rule of law and respect for human rights (HAM).

"Therefore, today we will hear from sources how they reflect on the handling of corruption, from the legal aspect and human rights enforcement," he explained.

Dr. Mahmul hopes that the ideas, ideas, and concepts of thought from this activity will produce a good impact so that the results of the recommendations will be conveyed to the stakeholders.

On that occasion, the Secretary of the USU Faculty of Law Masters Degree Study Program, Dr. Mahmud Mulyadi, S.H., M.Hum presented material on corruption through a historical perspective. According to him, Indonesia in handling corruption cases so far has tended to prioritize the way through criminal channels that focus on punishment rather than returning state assets.

"A mere punitive approach is not the only tool in corruption," said Dr. Mahmud.

He added, in fact, there are many views that the criminal pathway is not effective enough to suppress, prevent, eradicate and reduce the number of criminal acts of corruption.

"The KPK (the Corruption Eradication Commission ) agency must be able to carry out effective prevention," he said.

He hopes that the KPK can also improve integrity and collaborate with the prosecutor's office and the police in enforcing corruption. (ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Humas - Humas

News
Dies Natalis
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara