MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU And Meranti Islands Regency Establish Cooperation Focusing On Education And Health
USU and Meranti Islands Regency Establish Cooperation Focusing on Education and Health
Published At
03 August 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU and Meranti Islands Regency Establish Cooperation Focusing on Education and Health
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 03 August 2021

USU PUBLIC RELATION-MEDAN: The Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Dr. Muryanto Amin, S. Sos., M.Si., reaffirmed the commitment of the University of North Sumatra to contribute to development through the tri dharma activities of higher education (education, research, social service, and supporting of those three activities). This was conveyed in his remarks at the signing of a memorandum of understanding (MoU) between USU and Meranti Islands Regency, Thursday (8/7/2021). The binding of cooperation between the two institutions took place in the Rector's Office, Central Administration Bureau Building, 3rd floor, USU Campus, Medan.

The Rector, among others, opened up a wide space in the implementation of the Independent Learning - Independent Campus program which, among other things, could be implemented in thematic KKN activities (Social Service Programs), internships, by project based learning, and others. According to him, the University of North Sumatra has a mandatory for cooperation with many parties because the campus must be able to be useful for the surrounding areas. Campus and cooperation partners can provide mutual benefits and benefits for each party.

The same great opportunity can also be carried out through research and community service activities that will be harmonized and see what are the main indicators of priority programs in the Meranti Islands.

“Things that are done based on research will provide greater benefits for the environment as well as advances in science and technology. Thematic KKN that is part of community service activities carried out in the regions will also have a positive impact. There are things that need help for the people in the Meranti Islands which will later be accompanied by the USU team," Dr. Muryanto said.

The signing of this binding cooperation with the Meranti Islands Regency, continued Dr. Mury, became a joy and honor for the University of North Sumatra. It was hoped that this could be an entry point for USU to transmit “education viruses” as well as increase the interest of the Meranti Islands Regency community to continue their education to the University of North Sumatra.

“I hope that this MoU will not only stop at signing and ceremony. In the future, it may be necessary to hold more intense discussions to discuss what things can be done immediately or in the long term,” he said.

On that occasion, the Regent of Meranti Islands, H. Muhammad Adil, SH, thanked the University of North Sumatra for welcoming his party's desire to cooperate especially in the fields of education and public health. The Regent said that his government had a vision to make Meranti a developed, intelligent, and dignified region.

“For this reason, we have compiled seven strategic programs, one of which focuses on improving human resources through higher education, where we programmed 5,000 scholarships for undergraduate, postgraduate, and doctoral levels. We have collaborated with several universities, both in Riau, Java Island, and several universities in Sumatra, including USU today. One of the majors that we will support with this scholarship program is our children who are taking specialist doctor programs. We hope that in the future they can meet the needs of specialist doctors at the Meranti Islands District Hospital so that they can raise the class of our Hospital from Type C to Type B," the Regent said.

The Regent explained that the Meranti Islands District Hospital had a fairly good building and fairly complete equipment, but was not yet supported by a complete specialist doctor. For this reason, he opens opportunities for specialist doctors, graduates from USU to serve in the Meranti Islands, especially specialists in Heart, ENT, Eye, Lung, and Orthopedics. Also paramedics who support the operation of medical equipment that is already available and will be provided soon.

"Efforts to complete the resources of specialist doctors in this hospital need to be done because many of our residents are referred to outside the area, especially Pekanbaru and Tanjungbalai Karimun. Even among Chinese citizens there, many choose to seek treatment in Singapore and Malaysia, especially Melaka and Johor because they are close," he added.

Meranti is the youngest district in Riau Province, with its administrative center in Selat Panjang. This area was expanded from Bengkalis Regency in 2009. Meranti is directly adjacent to the Riau Islands, only two to three hours by ferry or boat to Tanjungbalai Karimun and Batam, which are available every day. Before Covid-19, Meranti had a passenger ship service line to Batu Pahat Johor, but it was stopped since last year's pandemic.

“For this reason, we are very grateful for the Rector's willingness to open the door for cooperation with the Meranti Islands Regency Government in the field of human resource development. Hopefully, later on, this memorandum of understanding can be concreted with a cooperation agreement involving technical OPD (Regional Apparatus Organization) so that USU, especially USU alumni, can contribute to the progress of the nation especially in helping the community in the Meranti Islands Regency, more specifically USU's Faculty of Medicine is also one of the best inSumatera island.

Also, present on the occasion were USU Vice Rector III, Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan, S.Si., M.Si., Apt., Dean of the Faculty of Medicine Prof. Dr. dr. Aldy Safruddin Rambe, Sp.S. (K), Deputy Dean III of the Faculty of Medicine, Dr. Inke Nadia Diniyanti Lubis , M.Ked. (Ped.), Sp.A., PhD, Vice Rector III USU Expert Staff,drg. Siti Salmiah, Sp. KGA and Head of BP2KM and Cooperation Bureau Surya Darma, S.Sos. Meanwhile, those present were from the Meranti Islands Regency Government, Acting Head of the Meranti Islands Regency Welfare Section, Hasan, the Meranti Islands Regency BPKAD (Regional Revenue and Finance Board) Finance Subdivision Head, Hj. Fitria Nengsih, M.Si., and Meranti Islands Regency Public Relations and Protocol Subdivision Head, Anshary Arif. The President of Pujakesuma Indonesia, H Suratman, was also present. (RJ/YH-©ULC)

Author: Renny Julia Harahap - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - PR

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara