MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Holds PKKMB For New Postgraduate Program Students
USU Holds PKKMB for New Postgraduate Program Students
Published At
25 September 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
USU Holds PKKMB for New Postgraduate Program Students
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Wednesday, 25 September 2024

“You are a superior generation that has been selected. Take advantage of this opportunity to explore your potential and make a real contribution to society. Be a leader in your respective fields,” said the Rector.

USU PR - The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) successfully held the Introduction to Campus Life for New Students (PKKMB) for master's, doctoral, professional, and other postgraduate programs in the 2024/2025 academic year. The event, which took place at the USU auditorium on Friday (13/09/2024), was also enlivened by a talk show with inspirational speakers Dr. Ir. Muhammad Abdul Gani, M.Sc, and Dr. Dahnil Anzar Simanjuntak, SE, ME.

A total of 2,267 new students officially joined the extended family of the USU academic community. USU Rector, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., in his speech, congratulated all new students who had successfully passed the rigorous selection. He also emphasized the importance of a proactive attitude and high learning spirit in pursuing education at the postgraduate level.

In this event, the Rector also said that graduate students are required to have the ability to think critically, innovatively, and adaptively to the times. In addition, he also encouraged students to be active in research and scientific development. He emphasized that this academic journey demands not only intellectual intelligence but also maturity, creativity, and commitment. The challenges require perseverance and dedication, but each challenge also opens up great opportunities to develop one's potential and contribute to society.

Prof. Muryanto also reminded the importance of adaptability and innovation in the era of technological disruption. He encouraged students to take advantage of every opportunity to enrich themselves and become lifelong learners. At the end of his speech, he emphasized that students should not underestimate their potential and make every failure a valuable lesson.

“You are the superior generation that has been chosen. Take advantage of this opportunity to explore your potential and make a real contribution to society. Be a leader in your respective fields,” said the Rector.

Director of the Directorate of Students and Alumni Relations of USU, Rahma Yurliani, S.Psi, M.Psi, explained that this year's PKKMB was different because the Professional Program also participated, in line with that, the theme carried this year was relevant to the needs of the industrial world, namely encouraging students to be active in research.

“This year's PKKMB is specifically designed to equip graduate students with research skills needed by the industry.” said the Director of Ditmawalumni USU.

Meanwhile, the Director of the USU Postgraduate School, Prof. Ir. T. Sabrina, M.Agr. Sc., Ph.D, provided information about the path of admission of new postgraduate students, both through regular channels and cooperation with scholarship granting agencies.

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara