MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Holds International Conference Management Workshop, Vice Rector III USU Hopes There Will Be Increased Opportunities To Improve The Quality Of Publications And Joint Research
Holds International Conference Management Workshop, Vice Rector III USU Hopes There will be Increased Opportunities to Improve the quality of Publications and Joint Research
Published At
19 August 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Holds International Conference Management Workshop, Vice Rector III USU Hopes There will be Increased Opportunities to Improve the quality of Publications and Joint Research
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 19 August 2021

MEDAN-USU PR: The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) through the Bureau of Research, Community Service, and Cooperation held a Reputable International Conference Management Workshop, Monday, (16/8/2021). The workshop was opened by USU Vice Rector III, Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan S.Si, MSi, Apt.

The activity, chaired by the Chairperson of the USU Conference Verification Team, Dr. Onrizal, S.Hut, M.Si, PhD, presented speakers Prof. Dr. Himsar Ambarita, S.T., M.T., as chairman of the Publisher Talent Team, Indra Aulia, S.TI., M.Kom., Romi Fadilah Rahmat, B.Comp Sc., M.Sc., Ivan Jaya, S.Si., M.Kom., with moderators Dr Nurman Ahmad and Ikhsan Siregar, S.T., M.Eng.

In his remarks, Vice Rector III of USU stated that designing reputable international conferences is one of USU's efforts to disseminate the results of research and the thoughts of lecturers. Also, to develop the pedagogical competence of lecturers, especially in terms of mastering certain materials, a lecturer needs to attend conferences both nationally and internationally. Conferences organized with certain themes can be a forum for academics to exchange information related to the development of current science, especially international conferences. A lecturer can open his horizons related to the development of science in various parts of the world.

“The benefits obtained by participating in international conferences include getting international publications, having broader insights, adding relationships, and getting feedback for our research results so that the level of objectivity increases. In addition, by participating in conferences outside, we also hope to be able to carry them out in our respective institutions, namely in the faculties,” said Vice Rector III USU.

Therefore, he continued, it is necessary to have a strategy for fulfilling the requirements of reputable international conferences, choosing and managing strategies for bidding with publishers of reputable international proceedings/journals, managing USU OCS, and everything related to that. “Hopefully, with this workshop, we can jointly increase opportunities to improve the quality of publications, increase joint research and collaboration between lecturers and researchers and lecturers,” he hoped.

In Prof. Himsar's presentation session, among others, it was discussed how to design a reputable international conference, regarding the requirements of a reputable international conference and strategies for fulfilling the requirements of a reputable international conference, cooperation between institutions / scientific or professional associations, scientific committees, editorial boards of proceedings and diversity of country of origin of the main authors of papers/presenters.

In the second material presentation, it was discussed about increasing the credit of the TALENTA Journal through reputable international conferences with the main discussion about the role of reviewers in directing citations of TALENTA Journal articles and the role of the conference publication team in citing TALENTA Journal articles, as well as citation cooperation with ITS.

The third material discusses the selection and bidding strategy with reputable international proceedings / journal publishers which includes issues of selecting reputable international proceedings / journal publishers and bidding strategies with reputable international proceedings / journal publishers. The presentation was delivered by Romi Fadilah Rahmat, B.Comp Sc, M.Sc.

The fourth material talks about OCS management for reputable international conferences, which discusses the introduction of USU OCS, registration of reviewers on OCS for each reputable international conference, assignment of reviewers, implementation of reviews by reviewers through OCS, and delivery of paper status decisions to authors. (RJ)

Author: Renny Julia Harahap - Public Relations

Interviewee: Vice Rector III of USU Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan SSi, MSi, Apt. - Vice Rector III USU

Photographer: Bureau of Research, Community Service, and Cooperation - Universitas Sumatera Utara

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara