MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Professor Of FK USU Expresses Concern Over The Direction Of National Health Policy
Professor of FK USU Expresses Concern over the Direction of National Health Policy
Published At
25 May 2025
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Professor of FK USU Expresses Concern over the Direction of National Health Policy
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Sunday, 25 May 2025

 

Public Relations USU -  More than 21 professors of the Faculty of Medicine of Universitas Sumatera Utara (FK USU) expressed their concern about the direction of national health policy and governance through a forum entitled “USU BerSUARA, Luskan NURANI Bangsa”. The forum occurred at the Pendopo FK USU, on Tuesday (5/20/2025).

 

This event became an academic forum emphasizing the importance of maintaining the quality of medical education and national health services. In his remarks, the Dean of FK USU, Prof. Dr. dr. Aldy Safruddin Rambe, Sp.S (K), emphasized that this statement is not merely an institutional attitude, but a form of moral responsibility of educators to the quality of doctors produced.

 

"If the quality of doctors decreases, the community will be the most affected. We don't want to produce incompetent doctors. This is a form of our responsibility to maintain the quality of health services in Indonesia," said Prof. Aldy.

 

The professors expressed concern that medical education faces serious challenges. Their statement highlighted the rejection of bureaucratic interventions that weaken medical education's independence, concerns over the disconnection between educators and teaching hospitals, and rejection of the takeover of the Specialist Doctors Collegium by non-academic parties.

 

Prof. Dr. Guslihan Dasatjipta, Sp.A(K), spokesperson for the USU FK Professors Council, read the official statement. He said several policies of the Ministry of Health, especially regarding the takeover of the collegium function and the unilateral mutation of medical personnel in teaching hospitals, had disturbed the principles of medical education governance built over decades.

 

"For more than 50 years, we have been educating doctors with high standards. Suddenly, our teachers are transferred without discussion. This damages the education system and harms patients and society," said Prof. Guslihan.

 

Prof. Guslihan emphasized that the policy could break the continuity of the clinical education process, thus risking reducing the competence of doctor and specialist graduates, which impacts health services. According to him, there is an imbalance of authority that should be in the hands of academics, now shifted non-transparently to the realm of bureaucracy.

 

“There is an imbalance of roles between the Ministry of Health and higher education institutions that is not transparent,” said Prof. Guslihan.

 

FK USU professors also criticized the ‘specialist crisis’ narrative, often used to accelerate the production of medical personnel. They emphasized that medical education is not just about numbers but about competence, empathy, and ethics that short-term policies cannot sweep aside.

 

The Dean of FK USU explained that medical education cannot be separated from direct practice in teaching hospitals. So far, the collaboration between educational institutions and hospitals has been harmonious. However, some recent policies are considered to separate the two without academic consideration.

 

"Don't let the dialogue only take place in a vacuum. We need to sit together, talk based on data and scientific interests, not short-term interests," he added.

 

The professors hope that the President of the Republic of Indonesia can open a space for dialogue, formulate policies based on evidence, foster cross-sector collaboration, and uphold the integrity of medical education. They emphasized the importance of policy direction that involves all competent and authorized parties.

 

Through its Faculty of Medicine, USU stands as an ivory tower of science and a beacon of the nation's conscience. Within the framework of academic and moral responsibility, the professors of FK USU emphasized their commitment not to remain silent when the quality of education and public health services is at a crossroads.

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara