MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Student And Lecturer Achievement Award Night, USU Rector: A Moment Of Self-Introspection
Student and Lecturer Achievement Award Night, USU Rector: A Moment of Self-Introspection
Published At
06 January 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Student and Lecturer Achievement Award Night, USU Rector: A Moment of Self-Introspection
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 06 January 2022

"Giving rewards can mean how we train ourselves to provide the best service. We start with the best academic services to achieve achievements. We are currently in a hyper competitive era. We must realize that we have entered the competition, so we must improve our quality," said the USU Rector.

"Giving rewards can mean how we train ourselves to provide the best service. We start with the best academic services to achieve achievements. We are currently in a hyper competitive era. We must realize that we have entered the competition, so we must improve our quality," said the USU Rector.

USU PR - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) awarded outstanding students and lecturers in the "Best Advisor Student and Lecturer Achievement Award at the Universitas Sumatera Utara in 2021". The event was held at the USU Auditorium, Tuesday (12/28/2021).

Throughout 2021, USU won various achievements. In total there are 34 gold medals, 32 silver medals and 27 bronze medals from international events. There were also 151 gold medals, 101 silver medals and 111 bronze medals from the national event. As well as 5 gold medals and 2 silver medals from the regional level, and 2 gold and 2 silver medals from the provincial level. There were also additional medals from PON (National Sports Week) and IMT-GT (Indonesia Malaysia Thailand – Growth Triangle) with 8 medals.

USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin., S.Sos., M.Si., said that giving appreciation gifts to achievers is a moment of self-introspection. He invited the academic community to interpret this to improve performance and service.

"Giving rewards can mean how we train ourselves to provide the best service. We start with the best academic services to achieve achievements. We are currently in a hyper competitive era. We must realize that we have entered the competition, so we must improve our quality," said the USU Rector.

The Rector of USU said that in the coming years, USU will continue to target better achievements than the previous year. Achievements at the National Student Scientific Week (PIMNAS) are one of USU's main focuses. Previously, USU hosted the 34th PIMNAS in 2021.

"We are targeting that we can realize this student achievement in PIMNAS activities. We have missed a golden opportunity before when we were hosts, so it becomes motivation for us to excel in the next PIMNAS. I hope that lecturers and leaders of study programs, faculties, and universities can synergize to make it happen. We need to transform student learning so that they are encouraged to produce innovations," he said.

Dr. Muryanto appealed that the policy for implementing the Tri Darma of higher education could be carried out in an integrated manner. The synergy of students and lecturers must be improved so that collaboration can lead to innovation. He hopes that lecturers and lecturers do not walk alone, but work together in research, learning, and community service activities.

"The three dharmas of higher education must be implemented in line. So that no one goes their separate ways, but lecturers and students can collaborate in creating collaborations," he said.

According to him, continuous, continuous, and consistent learning is the main key in this effort, according to him. The learning outcomes will create innovations that will be included in the competition. Therefore, it is important for the academic community to be able to recognize their own strengths, field conditions, and opponent's abilities.

"Rewards are a trigger to increase endurance. We hope that this reward will be a motivation and trigger so that the academic community can continue to improve their innovations and works, so that they can provide achievements for USU," he concluded.

In line with this, the Chair of USU's Achievement Improvement Prof. Dr. Dwi Suryanto, M.Sc invites students in the future to prioritize participating in competitions organized by ministries and other government agencies.

"We urge students to participate more in activities scheduled at the ministry or organized by other government agencies, or competitions that meet the SIMKADMAWA assessment criteria, so that student participation can help improve USU's assessment," Prof. Dwi said.  (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Education
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara