MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Cultural Science
Undergraduate Program In Indonesian Literature
Undergraduate Program
Indonesian Literature
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Undergraduate Program in Indonesian Literature of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is one of the study programs at the Faculty of Cultural Science that has made achievements and created experts in Indonesian literature who contribute to various regions in Indonesia. This study program's main focus is to study poetry, prose, stories, novels, manuscripts, and other literary works in Indonesian. The program collaborates with various related institutions in developing Indonesian language and literature.

With the support of expert lecturers in Indonesian literature with national teaching certifications and the use of an integrated curriculum, we are committed to providing an interactive education and learning experience to our students. Our main goal is to produce graduates who are ready to face the world of work, have broad insights, are creative, and can adapt to the development of information technology and the digital world. Many career opportunities are open to Indonesian Literature graduates, such as becoming a writer of novels or short literary stories, academics, language translators, and a career in public relations or international relations.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

sastra.indonesia@usu.ac.id

Undergraduate Program in Indonesian Literature

Accredited Baik Sekali

No. 1360/SK/BAN-PT/Ak.KP/S/IV/2023

Vision of Undergraduate Program in Indonesian Literature

The Indonesian Literature Study Program of the USU Faculty of Cultural Science will become a study program with academic excellence in the fields of Indonesian Language and Literature as well as a benchmark for language and literary science that can compete at the national and international levels by the year 2025.

Mission of Undergraduate Program in Indonesian Literature

Research-Based

To implement higher education in the fields of Indonesian language and literature that is based on research.

Professionalism

To develop and enhance professional education in Indonesian language and literature that emphasizes the aspect of exploring alternative approaches to solve language and literary problems based on scientific, moral, conscience, and noble cultural values.

Community Service

To conduct, develop, and improve language and literary research and community service that is beneficial to positive life changes in the wider society.

Agents of Change

To produce graduates with expertise in language and literature who can become agents of change as a force for the modernization of society, possess strong competence in their field, high competitiveness, and demonstrate intellectual and ethical behavior.

Cooperation

To establish and improve cooperation among institutions in the fields of Indonesian language and literature, both domestic and international, to enhance the quality of science in the fields of research and community service.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Literature

Linguistics

Contact Us
Undergraduate Program in Indonesian Literature
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Universitas No.19, Padang Bulan, Kec. Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20155

(061) - 8215956

sastra.indonesia@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara