MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Hosts International Seminar On Nanomedical Innovation
USU Hosts International Seminar on Nanomedical Innovation
Published At
02 February 2024
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Hosts International Seminar on Nanomedical Innovation
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 02 February 2024

“We appreciate the implementation of this international seminar as USU's effort to encourage the exchange of the latest knowledge and information, especially in the field of nanomedical innovation,” said Prof. Muryanto.

USU PR - The Faculty of Pharmacy, Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) together with the USU Center for Excellence in Nanomedicine Innovation held the 2nd International Seminar on Nanomedicine entitled “Technology and Development of Nanoparticles to Obtain Safer and More Effective Drugs.” It took place online through zoom meetings and YouTube streaming, on Thursday (1/02/2024).

This seminar is a real step towards the advancement of science, especially nanoparticle technology, to develop safer and more effective drugs. This seminar is also a forum for collaboration and exchange of ideas between scientists, researchers, and practitioners from various countries that will make a significant contribution to the development of nanotechnology in the pharmaceutical industry.

The seminar featured two keynote speakers, Prof. Kanjiro Miyata, Ph.D from the Department of Materials Engineering, The University of Tokyo in Japan; and Prof. Oleh Taratula, Ph.D from the College of Pharmacy, Oregon State University in the USA. There were also six invited speakers from Chulalongkorn University in Thailand, the Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences at King's College London, and the USU Faculty of Pharmacy.

In his speech, USU Rector Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si gave full appreciation and support for the implementation of the international seminar. Because this activity is one of USU's efforts to improve internationalization support programs, increase the number of international scientific publications, and revive research interests that lead to innovation in the fields of health and medicine.

“We appreciate the implementation of this international seminar as USU's effort to encourage the exchange of the latest knowledge and information, especially in the field of nanomedical innovation,” said Prof. Muryanto.

The evolution of the times has influenced shifts in knowledge, treatment methods, and introduced nanomedicine with nanoparticle technology as a sustainable and leading innovation in the health and pharmaceutical fields. Therefore, the USU Rector hopes that this international seminar can give birth to new ideas from speakers who share information, experiences, and knowledge to the participants.

“We warmly welcome the researchers who attend, we hope this conference will generate fresh ideas and distribute knowledge for the good of society,” hoped Prof. Muryanto.

Prof. Dr. Hakim Bangun, Apt as Head of the USU Nanomedicine Innovation Center of Excellence, explained that the development of drugs in nano size is useful for increasing absorption so that drugs become more effective and reduce side effects. For this reason, research is being carried out to obtain anticancer drugs that are safer and more effective.

“In this webinar, the speakers will discuss nanomedicine for cancer treatment, nanoviruses in the form of nanogels, nanosuspensions, and nanodots for immune healing applications, anti-inflammatory, anti-aging, antibacterial, and so on,” explained Prof. Hakim.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Public Relations

Interviewee: Prof. Muryanto Amin - Rector of USU

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Public Relations

News
SDGs 4
SDGs
SDGs 3
SDGs 8
Education
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara