MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Rector Invites Students To Improve Economic Literacy
USU Rector invites students to Improve Economic Literacy
Published At
10 August 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Rector invites students to Improve Economic Literacy
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 10 August 2021

USU PUBLIC RELATION-MEDAN: The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) in collaboration with Bank Indonesia (BI) gave a public lecture under the theme Strengthening Innovation, Synergy and Social Awareness as Contributions to Social Economic Recovery. The activity was held online on Friday (8/6/2021).

USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., in his speech invited students to improve economic literacy. He said, Bank Indonesia as the central bank in Indonesia plays an important role in the Indonesian economy, thus this activity is very beneficial for students. 

“USU cooperates in holding BI Teaching activities to increase economic insight and literacy among universities. This willingness is certainly very beneficial not only for students as the main participants in this activity, but also for lecturers and leaders of the Universitas Sumatera Utara, so that they can get to know more about a number of important economic policies that Bank Indonesia has issued in an effort to save the country from the threat of a crisis in the midst of a pandemic," the USU Rector said. 

 

He said Indonesia is currently struggling to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic. According to him, the pandemic has had a wide impact on society. The implementation of government policies to handle the pandemic is a dilemma.

“Money circulation in the community currently tends to be unstable due to the cessation of several economic activities and buying and selling transactions due to the implementation of PPKM. Indonesia, like many other countries in the world, is experiencing a dilemma and confusion in implementing policies that prioritize the safety of the community at large from the transmission of Covid-19, but also at the same time must save the country's economy so that it does not have an impact that can damage the social order, both in terms of narrow and wider," he added.

 

The Head of Bank Indonesia Representative, Soekowardojo, explained the implementation of BI Mengajar as a program to impart knowledge about the economy to students. Students who are expected to become future leaders are expected to have broad economic knowledge. 

“BI Teaching is our effort to provide students with a comprehensive understanding of the economy. In addition, BI Teaching is a form of gratitude for BI which has just celebrated its birthday," said Soekowardojo. 

Furthermore, the Rector of USU said that students' economic literacy can be a provision to meet their future, especially during the pandemic where the high unemployment rate is certainly a scourge for students. 

“Covid-19 has made the economic situation in many countries in the world shattered, and Indonesia is no exception. The industrial, trade, tourism and service sectors, are just a few of the many fields that have been hit hard during the pandemic, some of which have even had a crippling impact which resulted in an increase in the number of unemployed due to the inability of business actors to survive in the midst of this pandemic storm." he said. 

Present on the occasion were Deputy Governor of Bank Indonesia, Doni P Joewono, Director of the BI Institute, Idah Rosidah, Committee for the RI and BI Anniversary, Juli Budi Winantya, BI Money Management Department, Eva Aderia, Dean of the USU Faculty of Economics and Business, Dr. Fadli, SE, Msi., Vice Deans of the USU Faculty of Economics and Business, Heads of Study Programs at the USU Faculty of Economics and Business, and lecturers at the USU Faculty of Economics and Business. (RR/©ULC) 

 

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Rizki Hakim Lubis - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara