MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Secretary Asks To Improve Faculty And University Public Relations Collaboration
USU Secretary asks to improve Faculty and University Public Relations Collaboration
Published At
10 August 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Secretary asks to improve Faculty and University Public Relations Collaboration
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 10 August 2021

USU PUBLIC RELATION-MEDAN: Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held an online Workshop on Public Information Disclosure of Information Management and Documentation Officials (PPID) on Friday (6/8/2021). This activity aims to seek a common perception of all faculties and universities regarding public information services.

The public relations of faculties and units within USU also attended as participants. The secretary of the University, Prof. Dr. Muhammad Fidel Ganis Siregar, M.Ked (OG), Sp.OG (K)-Fer, officially opened the workshop.He said the activity was a continuation of the PPID socialization that had previously been carried out.

“What we are doing today is a continuation of the PPID socialization, which, at that time, we directly visited all faculties and units at USU.This workshop is to unite our perceptions in public information services," Prof. Fidel said.

Prof. Fidel explained that public relations between faculties and units within USU is very important to encourage promotion and public information services.According to him, faculty public relations are in direct contact with activities in each faculty and its units.

“The presence of public relations between faculties and units at USU is very important.Faculty and unit public relations collaborate with university public relations to improve public information services.In addition, with public relations between faculties and units, we can be more detailed and detailed in disseminating the activities at USU," he added.

Amalia Meutia, M.Psi, Psychologist, Head of Public Relations, Promotion, and Protocol at USU emphasized the important role of faculty and unit public relations.She likens the relationship between faculty and unit public relations with university public relations like a tree.

“Faculty and unit public relations encourage the formation of USU's own branding.In addition, it also carries out information management and maintenance activities on the website or social media of the respective faculties and units.Apart from that, they carry out policy socialization in their respective faculties and units," she said.

Faculty and unit public relations open access to information on agendas and activity plans in faculties and units.In addition, faculty and unit public relations can promote their faculty and units independently.

The Secretary of the University emphasized that USU should be able to display qualified public information services in the frame of transformation towards the best.As a higher education institution, USU must ensure the disclosure of public information.

“Strengthening information disclosure at USU improves our services to the community.In addition, we support the performance of PPID officials in providing good and targeted services regarding the public's need for information," he said. (RR/©ULC)

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Rizki Hakim Lubis - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara