MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Campus Life For New Students (PKKMB 2021) Held For The First Time With A Virtual Stage Concept
USU Campus Life for New Students (PKKMB 2021) Held For the First Time with a Virtual Stage Concept
Published At
18 August 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Campus Life for New Students (PKKMB 2021) Held For the First Time with a Virtual Stage Concept
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 18 August 2021

USU PUBLIC RELATIONS-MEDAN: Minister of Education and Technology of the Republic of Indonesia Nadiem Anwar Makarim requires universities to transfer credit with a count of 20 credits for each independent campus program. In addition, the Minister of Education and Culture also provides degree and non-degree scholarships for active students throughout Indonesia, one of which is superior scholarships that new students can participate in. This commitment was given by the Minister of Education and Culture to liberate education as stated in the Independent Campus policy.

He explained this in his online remarks at the Opening of the Introduction to Campus Life for New Students (PKKMB) at the Universitas Sumatera Utara for the 2021/2022 Academic Year.This year's USU PKKMB was held for the first time using the concept of a virtual stage and was held online from 12 to 13 August 2021. The theme was "Transformation for the Best USU.”

An independent campus, continued Nadiem, has the advantage that students do not have to sacrifice a longer study period.“We also provide degree and non-degree scholarships for active students throughout Indonesia, one of which is excellent scholarships that new students can participate in.Our commitment to liberate education will not succeed without the support and participation of friends in the independent campus program.Take advantage of your college years to get to know yourself and build bridges to reach your dreams.Let's move together to realize independent learning," he appealed to the 8,653 USU new students.Nadiem said, being a student has a wider independence to determine the future. Mendikbudristek gives the right to study outside the study program/campus for 3 semesters.

"There are many things that can be done in the corridors of the Independent Campus, which are designed to provide space for students with a variety of interests and interests, to get experiences that are not found in classrooms or textbooks and will become vehicles for achieving future dreams," he said.

Meanwhile, in his introductory remarks, USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., said that the world is currently undergoing major disruption or change.Students or young people as digital natives must be able to be more advanced than their predecessors, the analog natives.Because young people are reformers who make big changes to the world.For this reason, students must be able to become problem solvers.

Dr. Muryanto asked students to be able to explore and seek knowledge anywhere and everywhere, especially virtually.Currently, the digital world has become a treasure and a wealth of teaching materials on and off campus, which are very important to be utilized as much as possible.

“You have to hone your abilities and skills.Studying the curriculum in your course is very important, but studying other disciplines is also very important.Associating with one study program friend is important, but hanging out with other faculty and study program friends is also very important.Not only that, associating and interacting with alumni who have different professions and associating with industry and the world of work are also very important," he explained.

He further reminded that the disruption was more than a radical change.Disruption is a up size down changes, especially a change from analog to digital change.Each studenthas their own talents that are different from other students.That's the opportunity given on campus today called Independent Learning.

“You have the freedom to learn from lecturers and other people.The curriculum will continue to process to become more open and provide opportunities for you to explore other sciences.The campus is given the opportunity to be independent, namely the Independent Campus.This opportunity must be explored as much as possible, because in the end you were mandated for two very important things at once, namely working for humanity and the progress of the nation," he said.

Chairperson of the USU Board of Trustees, Dr. Nurmala Kartini Pandjaitan Sjahrir, on the same occasion emphasized that USU has a responsibility as an institution that shapes character.It's not just building intellectuality, but also humanity and civilization.He also congratulated the new students while encouraging them to start the struggle and prepare to proceed to become a superior generation who will make the nation and country proud.

Present at the opening of the PKKMB, were the Chair of the USU Academic Senate, the Chair of the USU Board of Professors, the Vice Rectors, the University Secretary and the ranks of faculty leaders and lecturers.The number of new USU students consists of 2,131 students who passed the selection of the SNMPTN pathway, 2,463 students from the SBMPTN pathway, 2,889 students from the SMM pathway and 1,170 from the SPMPD pathway.(RJ)SU who participated in the PKKMB. (©ULC)

Author: Renny Julia Harahap - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: PR - PR

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara