MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Holds Briefing For KKNT-PPM 2023
USU Holds Briefing for KKNT-PPM 2023
Published At
20 June 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Holds Briefing for KKNT-PPM 2023
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 20 June 2023

"This is a routine activity that we do every year. The difference is that for several years it has been carried out by taking a term called thematic. Thematic means that something is delivered specifically to the community. We lecture in the classroom, and then if we don't try to apply the theory we learned in the classroom in the field. That seems like something is missing. Because one of the tasks of higher education is to provide solutions to real community problems, "said the Rector.

USU PR - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held a briefing for KKNT-PPM USU 2023 which was carried out by the USU Community Service Institute. The activity attended by USU students was held at the USU Auditorium on Tuesday (13/06/2023).

In his remarks, USU Rector Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin S.Sos., M.Si explained that the difference in KKN in recent years is Thematic KKN. In line with the duties of higher education, one of which is to provide solutions to problems faced by the community, students, as the actors, are expected to be able to apply the knowledge gained in the classroom to the field in order to have a positive impact on the community.

“This is a routine activity that we do every year. The difference is that for several years, this has been carried out by taking a term called thematic. Thematic means that something is delivered specifically to the community. We lecture in the classroom, and then we don't try to apply the theories we learn in the classroom to the field. That seems like something is missing. Because one of the tasks of higher education is to provide solutions to real community problems,” he said.

Dr. Zulfan Lubis, S.S., M.Hum as Head of KKNT PPM USU said that this year there are 10 thematic villages that have been submitted to USU students who will take part in KKNT such as prosperous villages, digital villages, disaster resilient villages, to villages of tolerance. The title change in this routine program next year is 'Students Serve.'

“The new design is thematic. KKNT PPM in the previous year was not based on a theme. Now, because there is an MBKM spirit, we set the thematic. We have conveyed 10 thematic villages to the participants, including prosperous villages, digital villages, disaster-resilient villages, and villages of tolerance. Next semester, KKNT MBKM will also be held. However, we have changed the title to student service,” he said.

KKNT Regular Coordinator Eko Yudhistira SH, M.Kn, also explained the differences between Regular KKN and International KKN. International KKN participants, which is a new program this year, come from Pakistan, China, and Malaysia. In the regular KKNT, there are some changes in the selection process. The Regular KKNT Coordinator hopes that students who participate in the KKNT program can learn many things in the service village and can contribute to and benefit the social life and village community.

“The difference is that if it's regular, it's like usual, it's a compulsory curriculum. Well, if this international is a KKN that we have just tried. Yes, the new participants this year we tried in the designed participants have come out from outside Pakistan from China and from Malaysia. Now, if this regular KKN has changed a little from last year, we have evaluated some important things that we have to improve for implementation this year. Well there are changes later we will be more rigorous selection so that students who KKN can carry out their duties and work in accordance with the rules we agree on. Yes, hopefully, they can learn a lot in the village and can contribute and be useful in social life and village communities, of course, “he said.

The National KKN program was also explained by the National KKN Coordinator Destanul Aulia SKM, MBA, MEc, Ph.D this is a routine USU activity that is included in the national program under the Ministry of Education and Culture with Belmawa. USU has conducted a selection in the form of interviews, psychological tests, and others and has selected 5 students who will serve in Pontianak. Students from all universities in Indonesia who will participate in the KKN Kebangsaan program will be equipped with techniques in accordance with the theme, namely nationality so that students are more creative and innovative in solving problems in the village.

“KKN Kebangsaan, as the name implies, is an activity that has become a USU routine and is included in the national program under the Ministry of Education and Culture with Belmawa. This time, it was held in Pontianak, and we have made a selection according to the technical guidelines provided. We have got 5 students, and today, we also joined in the debriefing event. The selection is directly selected by the faculty of psychology in accordance with the existing mechanisms at the Faculty of psychology, interviews, psychological tests and so on,” he said.

USU students do not need to worry about protection during the KKNT program. BPJS representative Habib Pahlev explained that the Social Security Administration (BPJS) and USU provide work accident insurance and death insurance like the protection period given to KKNT Regular for 35 days.

“So this KKNT is protected by USU for work accident insurance and death insurance. The protection period is as long as students are active. So if in this regular KKNT for 35 days, that is the coverage period provided by USU through employment. It is in the form of work accident insurance and death insurance programs,” he said. (BR)

 

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Public Relations Staff

Interviewee: Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos, M.Si - USU Rector

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Public Relations Staff 

News
Campus Life
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara