MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Economics And Business
Undergraduate Program In Development Economics
Undergraduate Program
Economics Development
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Undergraduate Program in Economic Development at Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) appeals to prospective students interested in the Business, Finance, and Banking sectors. The curriculum is designed to provide in-depth understanding and skills in solving complex problems in economic, financial, and social development. The main goal of this program is to create experts who have a strong understanding of global development challenges and can significantly contribute to economic growth and sustainable development.

The vision of this Undergraduate Study Program in Economic Development is to be superior, independent, and innovative according to market needs in international competition. Graduates of this program have broad career potential, ranging from economic advisors to development project managers. Upon completion of the study program, students will earn a Bachelor of Economics (S.E.) degree that prepares them to thrive in various fields of economic development professions.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

prodiep@usu.ac.id

Accreditation of Undergraduate Program in Economics and Development Studies 2021

Accredited A

No. 134/SK/BAN-PT/Ak-PPJ/S/I/2021

Vision of Undergraduate Program in Development Economics

Producing outstanding, competitive, and innovative graduates to meet market needs in global competition.

Mission of Undergraduate Program in Development Economics

Education

To organize higher education in economics for the development of character and professionalism of human resources based on empowerment with an educational orientation that emphasizes aspects of finding alternative solutions to actual problems based on scientific, moral, and conscience studies.

Graduate Competencies

To produce competent graduates in the field of economics who have strong scientific competence, relevance, and competitiveness, and behave with ethical scholarship.

Community Service

To implement, develop, and improve education, research culture, and community service programs in the field of economics to improve academic quality and provide benefits for a better change in the lives of the wider community.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Banking

Islamic Economics

Planning

Entrepreneurship

Contact Us
Undergraduate Program in Development Economics
Universitas Sumatera Utara

JL. Prof T. M. Hanafiah, Kampus USU (Fakultas Ekonomi dan Bisnis Lt 2, Program Studi Ekonomi Pembangunan )Padang Bulan, Kec. Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20155

(061) - 8218532

prodiep@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara