MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
University Activity
Professor Mengabdi, Empowering Fish Ponds
Professor Mengabdi, Empowering Fish Ponds
Published At
02 August 2021
Published By
David Kevin Handel Hutabarat
Professor Mengabdi, Empowering Fish Ponds
 

Published by

David Kevin Handel Hutabarat

Published at

Monday, 02 August 2021

The Indonesian government has identified and secured funds to restore 600,000 hectares of damaged mangrove areas in 2021–2024 in 9 provinces, including North Sumatra Province. This gave birth to the idea and was the background for the Professor Mengabdi activity carried out by USU lecturers, namely by empowering the abundant former ponds in Tanjung Rejo Village, Percut Sei Tuan District, Deli Serdang Regency.

The USU Professor Mengabdi Community Service Team, chaired by Prof. Mohammad Basyuni, S.Hut., M.Sc., Ph.D (USU Faculty of Forestry) with members Prof. Dr. Dwi Suryanto (USU Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences) and Ipanna Enggar Susetya, S.Kel., M.Sc. (USU Faculty of Agriculture), assisted by three USU Forestry Masters Program students (Yuntha Bimantara, Salma Safrina Harahap, and Mikrajni Harahap), and five USU Forestry and Aquatic Resources Management Undergraduate Program students, on July 21, 2021, carried out ecology and hydrology-based planting activities.

The activity involved Mugiono, a local resident who is the head of a fishermen's group, as the partner leader, who, together with his members, planted 2,000 Avicennia spp (api-api) seedlings, consisting of Avicennia alba and Avicennia marina. This community service activity also synergizes with the research of 3 undergraduate students who studied the effect of restoration activities on changes in biota, including crabs, arthropods, mollusks, and polychaeta, which was carried out before and after (3 months) after the restoration activity.

Although it is recognized that restoration failures may have occurred in the past, no specific study evaluates past restorations to guide future targets effectively. The Pak Mugiono Fishermen Group, when visited by the USU Professor Mengabdi Community Service Team, agreed when their abandoned ponds were used for restoration activities and, in the future, could be used for silvofishery ponds or used as a model for the success of mangrove restoration in former ponds.

This study includes measuring vegetation analysis, taking soil samples for nitrogen, phosphorus, and carbon analysis, and measuring pond water's physical and chemical properties. The natural mangrove forest adjacent to the pond location and ponds with natural regeneration of Avicenni seedlings next to them are used as a reference or standard.

Suasana Pengabdian yang dilakukan oleh Tim Pengabdian Masyarakat Profesor Mengabdi di Desa Tanjung Rejo, Kecamatan Percut Sei Tuan, Kabupaten Deli Serdang

The Professor Mengabdi community service activity is expected to solve partner problems and be an initial step in utilizing ponds for conservation activities by restoring the ecological and hydrological approach. It will be monitored periodically using water loggers and mini buoys.

The Professor Mengabdi community service scheme is expected to contribute to restoration activities and also become a model for restoring former ponds that are not functioning properly by improving water management (pond gates) and fortifications, planting appropriate plant species, namely Avicennia spp., and measuring the success of restoration (before and after the ecological and hydrological approach is applied).

One of the main motivations for mangrove restoration is to restore the high value of the mangrove ecosystem for biodiversity and various ecosystem services such as coastal protection, improving fish products, and other products that directly and indirectly benefit local and global residents. Deforestation has negatively impacted 16% of global mangrove forests and endangered species (Richards & Friess, 2016) and reduced mangrove biodiversity and carbon storage in forest biomass (Polidoro et al., 2010; Simaliki et al., 2012). Mangrove conservation and sustainable mangrove management are needed to maintain the existence of mangrove forests and improve rehabilitation and restoration programs.

University Activity
Community Service Activity
Find More Activity
University Activity
USU Lecturer Concern on the Extinction of Orangutan Tapanuli
University Activity
USU professor turns shrimp shell waste into face serum
University Activity
USU Research Collaboration Lowers Stunting Rate in Sergai

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara