MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Built An International Architecture Studio
USU Built an International Architecture Studio
Published At
05 April 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Built an International Architecture Studio
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 05 April 2023

This international studio was developed as one of the subsidiary programmes in the success of the USU Rector's slogan, Transformation Towards the Ultimate. Prof Poppy explained that the International Studio is envisioned as a place to transfer science and technology to improve competency in order to compete internationally.

HUMAS USU - Supporting the World Class University (WCU) programme with the spirit of the tagline Transformation Towards the Ultimate, Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) continues to improve. Most recently, USU, under the leadership of Rector Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, has just officially established an architecture studio with international standards for theFaculty of Engineering students to practice in.

Thirteen partners were involved in the construction of the International Studio as a learning facility for students in architectural specialisation at USU Faculty of Engineering's Professional Education Study Programme. The inauguration of the International Studio was opened directly by the Third Vice Rector of USU, Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan, S.Si, M.Si., Apt and the Dean of the Faculty of Engineering USU, Dr. Ir. Fahmi S.T., M.Sc., IPM at USU Department of Architecture Building, 15 March 2023.

This international studio was developed as one of the subsidiary programmes in the success of the USU Rector's slogan, Transformation Towards the Ultimate. Prof Poppy explained that the International Studio is envisioned as a place to transfer science and technology to improve competency in order to compete internationally.

"USU is very happy and grateful for this international studio. A big thank you to the partners, the Architecture Professional Education Study Programme (PPAr), and all who support this international studio. The International Studio is a place for students to learn and improve their competencies so that they can be recognised internationally," said Prof Poppy.

Head of the Department of Professional Education for Architects, Dr Ar. Achmad Delianur Nasution ST, MT, IAI, AA, IAP, GP, emphasised the importance of the International Studio at PPAr because, in addition to being a learning space for teaching and learning, it is also serving as a technological showroom for the latest learning facilities with the collaboration concept of the first partners at Universitas Sumatera Utara.

"The term studio, not class, refers to a replica of a place where professional architects carry out their process of working to produce their best designs. In addition to the international standard facilities, international competition projects undertaken by Architecture Professional Education students are also the background for the studio being called the International Studio," explained Dr Ar. Achmad.

13 Partners in building the International Studio

Partners' collaboration in development is a form of contribution from partners to the education world in the form of introducing products to professional students. Product knowledge is needed for professional architectural education students as part of the preparation and practice in the real world in becoming professional architects.

The design of the international studio for interior design uses a simple curve line futuristic style with a touch of locality laser cutting Malay ornaments, typical of Tanah Deli. The main interior materials are as listed: Aluminium Composite Panel (ACP) from Seven (PT. Gumapu Berkat Abadi), the lighting from Philips (PT. Asta Karya Indotama), glass partitions with spider fitting technology and automatic doors from PT. Kenari Djaya Prima, air conditioning with split duck technology from PT. Daikin Applied Solution Indonesia, Interactive White Board Android Supported Version 65 inches from PT. Karido Mitra Internasional, Samsung Smart TV 50 inches QLEDb4K Q80B from Reclea Brick, HP Pavilion Gaming Laptop 15dk2002TX i5 from PT. Wavin Trading Indonesia, 20 sets of studio chairs and tables from High Point, Signage "PPArs" from Kreasi Group, fire-resistant emergency doors from Dekkson Indonesia, 25 sockets and networks from Schneider Electric, wall painting by Nippon Paint (PT. Nipsea Paint and Chemical), the studio is also equipped with HEVA filters from Japan Air Filter which is the only studio with Pandemic Ready capabilities partnered with USU, all of which are stated in the MOU and MOA.

The Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between the partners and USU was signed directly by the head of the company and the rector of USU. Furthermore, it was followed up with the Dean of the Faculty of Engineering's Memorandum of Agreement. The partners committed to sharing knowledge in the form of lectures on the latest technology of their products.

Prof. Poppy also hopes that the Faculty of Engineering PPAr's International Studio can be utilised and maintained by the entire academic community, especially the Professional Architecture Education study programme.

"My hope is that this studio can continue to be used well, together having an important role in utilising and maintaining this international studio," concluded Prof Poppy.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsyad Mulyadi - Humas

News
Management
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara