MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Cultural Science
Undergraduate Program In Batak Literature
Undergraduate Program
Batak Literature
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Undergraduate Program in Batak Literature of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is the only Batak literature study program in the world that is part of the literature department group at the Faculty of Cultural Science. Since its establishment, this study program has become a platform for talented students to develop their potential in the Batak literature field. This study program's main focus is to provide students with speaking, writing, and listening skills using the Batak language in its various dialects, such as Toba, Karo, Angkola/Mandailing, Simalungun, and Pakpak/Dairi. In addition, students will also study literature, language, and Batak culture and customs in depth.

Supported by lecturers who are experts in Batak literature with national teaching certifications and the use of an integrated curriculum, we are committed to providing our students with an interactive education and learning experience. Our ultimate goal is to create the best individuals in the field of Batak literature who are able to compete on a national and international scale. Graduates of our study program have a wide range of career opportunities, from becoming translators or cultural practitioners to potentially working as journalists or reporters specializing in coverage of Batak culture and community life.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

sastrabatak@usu.ac.id

Undergraduate Program in Batak Literature

Accredited Very Good

No. 2044/SK/BAN-PT/Ak.KP/S/V/2023

Vision of Undergraduate Program in Batak Literature

By 2026, the Batak Literature Study Program of the Universitas Sumatera Utara Faculty of Cultural Science will become a leading center for the study of Batak culture in Indonesia and realize internationalization.

Mission of Undergraduate Program in Batak Literature

Language Science Education

To provide education in the fields of Batak (Toba, Karo, Angkola/Mandailing, Simalungun, Pakpak/Dairi) language, literature, and culture.

Competent Human Resources

To become a center of competent and reliable human resources in education, research, and community service in the fields of Batak (Toba, Karo, Angkola/Mandailing, Simalungun, Pakpak/Dairi) language, literature, and culture.

Cooperation

To establish cooperation with relevant institutions in the fields of education, research, and community service.

Research and Community Service

To conduct research and community service focused on the fields of Batak language, literature, and culture, with their results turned into written documents and data sources for researchers and learners of Batak (Toba, Karo, Angkola/Mandailing, Simalungun, Pakpak/Dairi) language, literature, and culture.

Produce Entrepreneurs

To produce entrepreneurs who can develop the Batak language, literature, and culture through education.

Sought-After by Society

To make the Batak Literature program highly sought-after by the community, especially the younger generation, as it is the only program of its kind in Indonesia.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Linguistics

Literature

Contact Us
Undergraduate Program in Batak Literature
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Universitas No.19, Padang Bulan, Kec. Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20155

(061) - 8215956

sastrabatak@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara