MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Poland Increases Cooperation To Strengthen USU's Internationalization
Poland Increases Cooperation to Strengthen USU's Internationalization
Published At
10 October 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Poland Increases Cooperation to Strengthen USU's Internationalization
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Sunday, 10 October 2021

The meeting itself discussed educational cooperation for both parties, in particular supporting USU's internationalization program.

PR USU - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) received a visit from the Polish Ambassador to Indonesia, Beata Stoczynska, Thursday (10/7/2021) at the Office of the Rector of USU. During her visit, the Polish Ambassador was accompanied by Political and Economic Affairs Poland Embassy Michal Weglarz and Slawomir Stanislaw Stoczynski.

The meeting itself discussed educational cooperation for both parties, in particular supporting USU's internationalization program.

The USU Rector, Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., who welcomed the Polish Ambassador's entourage, said that the arrival of the Polish Ambassador strengthened USU's efforts to connect with the world of education abroad.

“We appreciate the arrival of the Polish Ambassador. I hope that this meeting does not end here but that we can implement it further,” the Rector said.

The Rector of USU also hopes that there will be a program realization so that the implementation of campus internationalization can be realized and hopes that many USU academics will have the opportunity to continue their education in Poland.

“Hopefully after this, access will be opened for us to increase the insight and knowledge of our academic community. We have to arrange a series of programs such as student and lecturer exchanges, joint research, and other programs," said the USU Rector.

The Polish Ambassador, Beata, who arrived in Kualanamu on Thursday morning deliberately prioritized coming to USU to convey a message of cooperation in education between Poland and USU.

“I want an increase in the cooperation that we have built so far. Especially in the world of health, where USU is known to be very superior in health education," said Beata.

Beata said that she saw the potential to collaborate in education with USU, especially in the fields of health, engineering, and agriculture.

She said there were at least 600 Indonesian students taking turns studying in Poland.

For information, the cooperation between USU and Poland has been carried out for at least the last three years through a program called Erasmus. Erasmus is a forum that provides access to education to several countries in Europe.

During the meeting, Beata also explained that the name of the Polonia area in Medan is the Latin name of Poland.

“The name comes from a Polish nobleman who created jobs in tobacco fields around the Polonia region today. Because these merchants provide wide employment opportunities and have an impact on the wider community, the area is called Polonia as a representation of the origin of the nobility," she said.

Present accompanying the USU Rector in the meeting were USU Vice Rector III Dr Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan, S.Si, M.Si, Apt, Head of USU's International Affairs Office, Dr. Esther Sorta Mauli Nababan, MS Sc, USU lecturers and education staff.(©ULC)

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - PR

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara