MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU 2024 Media Gathering: Fostering Collaboration, Strengthening Intermedia Synergy
USU 2024 Media Gathering: Fostering Collaboration, Strengthening Intermedia Synergy
Published At
26 December 2024
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU 2024 Media Gathering: Fostering Collaboration, Strengthening Intermedia Synergy
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 26 December 2024

Public Relations USU—Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), through the Office of Public Relations, Promotion, and Protocol, held a Media Gathering 2024 with the theme “Connect and Collaborate.” This event, which took place at Kampung Ladang on Monday (23/12/2024), created an atmosphere of warmth and togetherness between USU public relations and media partners.

 

USU Secretary, Prof. Dr. dr. Muhammad Fidel Ganis Siregar, M.Ked (OG), Sp.O.G., Subsp.F.E.R., expressed the importance of building a family relationship between educational institutions and the media. He highlighted the strategic role of the media in conveying various university achievements and activities to the wider community.

 

“What the university does should be known by many people through meaningful publications from journalists,” said Prof. Fidel.

 

In addition, the USU Secretary gave appreciation to the USU Office of Public Relations, Promotion, and Protocol for the success of winning the Gold award at the Press Company Union (SPS) Award Media Gathering last year. Prof. Fidel hopes that the Media Gathering tradition will not only become a gathering place, but also contribute to increasing collaboration that can support the overall progress of USU.

 

“The media has a big role in showing the quality of programs carried out by USU,” he added.

 

The Head of USU's Office of Public Relations, Promotion, and Protocol, Amalia Meutia, M.Psi, Psychologist, expressed her hope in this activity. She emphasized that the relationship between USU and media partners is not only limited to formal cooperation such as news publication, but also includes a human dimension that strengthens mutual trust and togetherness.

 

“A strong connection between the university and the media is the foundation of successful communication so far,” said the Head of USU Public Relations Promotion and Protocol.

 

The event was further enlivened by a variety of fun games designed to test cooperation and cohesiveness, such as relay races and creative team-based games. The laughter and cheers of the participants colored every moment, creating an atmosphere of contagious happiness.

 

Amalia Meutia, M.Psi, Psychologist, also explained that the theme reflects USU's commitment to continue to open space for transparency, strengthen relationships with media partners, and improve the quality of information delivered. She hopes that through this activity, all participants can leave their daily routines for a moment and enjoy a relaxed but meaningful moment of togetherness.

 

“Hopefully this will be a moment to strengthen synergy and create better collaboration in the future,” Amalia concluded.

 

The participants not only enjoyed each other's company, but also built stronger bonds. In addition, one of the most anticipated moments was the door prize session, where various attractive prizes were distributed to participants. From electronic equipment to other interesting merchandise, this session was the highlight of the fun.

News
SDGs
SDGs 16
SDGs 17
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara