MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Prof. Muryanto Amin Inaugurated As USU's Permanent Professor
Prof. Muryanto Amin inaugurated as USU's Permanent Professor
Published At
15 March 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Prof. Muryanto Amin inaugurated as USU's Permanent Professor
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 15 March 2023

Prof. Mury noted that the transformation of political parties to digital platforms is necessary because Indonesia's internet users increase annually. Because of Indonesia's high number of internet users, public space automatically turns into digital space. As a result of these alterations, political parties must be innovative and resourceful.

Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., Rector of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), was officially inaugurated as a Permanent Professor of Political Science on Monday (6/3/2023). In his inaugural address, the rector discussed the "Transformation of Political Parties into Party Organizations in the Digital Age to Strengthen Democracy."

Prof. Muryanto Amin stated that advancements in information and communication technologies are causing rapid changes in the world.

President Joko Widodo always emphasizes the significance of Indonesia's readiness to face digitalization. President Jokowi's perspective on the digital phenomenon in Indonesia's development and its connection to the global community is inextricably linked to the nation's readiness to consolidate democracy in the digital age.

Prof. Mury noted, however, that political parties have never discussed the topic seriously; digital politics and digital parties remain a taboo subjects.

The professor emphasized that to transform political parties into party organizations in the digital age, the digital space must be regarded as a new form of democracy and power.

"The concept of public space in the context of democracy is defined as a means of communication and advocacy that encourages the public to engage in inclusive and thoughtful discourse. He explained that public space might be obtained and administered at any time, from any location, and by anyone using digital space.

Prof. Mury explained that the transformation of political parties to digital is necessary because the number of internet users in Indonesia increases every year. As a result of the high number of internet users in Indonesia, public space has transformed into digital space. As a result, political parties must be innovative and creative.

"Data and information are incredibly simple to handle using artificial intelligence, resulting in the disappearance of borders between nations before our eyes. But, when political parties do not promptly adjust to manual to digital changes in their organizations, an irony is produced. "An irony that describes a situation in which the world is confronted with the technological disruption that necessitates political parties to become a driving turbine to produce leaders capable of responding to rapid and sudden changes, but political parties continue to use outmoded analog methods," he said.

Prof. Mury emphasized that a digital party is not limited to using a digital platform but also involves its use.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Management
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara