MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Agriculture
Undergraduate Program In Agribusiness
Undergraduate Program
Agribusiness
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Undergraduate Program in Agribusiness is a study program that integrates business concepts with agriculture. In this program, students learn agricultural business management strategies with a focus on business planning, marketing, resource management, and economic aspects of agriculture. The main goal is to increase the profitability and sustainability of agricultural businesses, as well as ensuring sufficient and quality food supply. Established in 1957, the Undergraduate Program in Agribusiness is one of the oldest study programs at USU, supported by competent and nationally certified teaching staff who are committed to providing students with an interactive and effective learning experience.

With the best curriculum, this program aims to enable students to analyze data and information comprehensively by integrating scientific knowledge in agriculture and business economics. Graduates of the Undergraduate Program in Agribusiness have a variety of career prospects, ranging from becoming agribusiness experts in various sectors to becoming entrepreneurs. This program also encourages students to apply the knowledge gained during the education period to create business opportunities in the community, both on a small and large scale. Upon completion of this study program, students will obtain a Bachelor of Agriculture (S.P.) degree as proof of their expertise and qualifications in the field of agribusiness.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

agribisnis@usu.ac.id

Undergraduate Program in Agribusiness

Accredited Very Good

9982/SK/BAN-PT/Ak.KP/S/II/2023

Vision of Undergraduate Program in Agribusiness

To become a leading study program in developing science and technology with an agribusiness and entrepreneurial outlook to prepare human resources with global competitiveness, especially in the field of plantations, in 2021.

Mission of Undergraduate Program in Agribusiness

Education

Becoming a study program that organizes excellent education and develops the quality of human resources through applying insights into plantation crop agribusiness and entrepreneurship that is globally competitive.

Research

Developing the quality and quantity of agribusiness-minded valuable research for the community, agribusiness organization managers, and policymakers (government).

Community Service

Developing the quality and quantity of agribusiness-minded community service that benefits the community, agribusiness organization managers, and policymakers (government).

Partnership

Developing the quality of teaching, research, and community service through collaboration with related national and international institutions.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Agribusiness Finance

Agribusiness Marketing

Agricultural Extension and Communication

Contact Us
Undergraduate Program in Agribusiness
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Prof. A. Sofyan No. 3, Kampus USU Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155

+62618213181

agribisnis@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara