MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Master Of Management Hosts IJCDSS 2025 Event
USU Master of Management Hosts IJCDSS 2025 Event
Published At
15 May 2025
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Master of Management Hosts IJCDSS 2025 Event
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 15 May 2025

“This year's conference theme is very relevant to the demands of the times, when the world is in a vortex of changes in business systems and management development,” said Prof Poppy

 

Public Relations USU - The Postgraduate Master of Management Study Program at Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) hosted the 2nd International Joint Conference on Digitalization of Sustainable Social Sciences (IJCDSS) 2025 which took place in a hybrid manner at the Digital Learning Center Building USU, on Saturday (10/05/2025).

 

This conference, which carried the theme "Sustainable Business: Balancing Economic Growth, Environmental Stewardship, and Social Equity for a Resilient Future," was organized by USU in collaboration with Universiti Teknologi MARA (UiTM) Pulau Pinang and seven international universities from other countries.

 

Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan, S.Si., M.Si., Apt. as the Vice Rector III of USU who represented the USU Rector, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., said that the theme raised was very relevant to today, where the world is undergoing significant changes in business systems and management development. She added that these changes do not only focus on economic growth, but also pay great attention to environmental preservation and social justice.

“This year's conference theme is very relevant to the demands of the times, when the world is in a vortex of changes in business systems and management development,” she said.

 

Vice Rector III said that digitalization in social science offers excellent opportunities to bridge the gap between theory and practice, data and policy, and global vision and local action. She said that higher education institutions have a strategic role as centers of innovation, collaboration and the birthplace of solutions. Therefore, this conference is presented as a commitment of academics to producing knowledge and actively contributing to real change for a sustainable future.

“The digitization of social science presents a great opportunity to bridge the gap between theory and practice, data and policy, global vision and local action,” she explained.

 

More than 300 participants, including 200 speakers representing various institutions from Indonesia, Malaysia, the UK, Turkey, Germany, New Zealand and Taiwan, attended this year's conference. Prof. Dr. lr. Meilita Tryana Sembiring, S.T, M.T, IPU as the Chairperson of the Organizing Committee and Head of the Master of Management Study Program said that the Master of Management Study Program is currently exploring a double degree program with UiTM. Therefore, this conference was held as one of the stages, namely, a joint conference.

“We are holding a joint conference, our stage towards a double degree program,” she said.

 

Prof. Dr. lr. Meilita Tryana Sembiring, S.T, M.T, IPU, said 170 master management students needed to publish their papers to fulfill graduation requirements. She hoped this conference would help students publish their papers and better understand the academic process.

“We hope that students can publish their papers at this conference, and it is also a means for them to understand better how the academic process works,” she hoped.

 

As one of the keynote speakers, Sucipto Prayitno, Director of Human Resources and General Affairs of PTPN III (Persero), said the theme aligned with the challenges and opportunities faced in the agribusiness and plantation sectors in Indonesia. He believes technology is the key to dealing with existing obstacles.

“The theme this time is in line with the challenges and opportunities being faced by the agribusiness and plantation sectors in Indonesia,” he said.

 

On the same occasion, Sucipto Prayitno emphasized PTPN Group's commitment in creating a sustainable, innovative, and globally competitive Plantation industry. He added that PTPN Group is continuously transforming to build a plantation business model that will benefit financially, socially, and environmentally. 

“PTPN Group is committed to creating a sustainable, innovative, and globally competitive plantation industry,” he emphasized.

News
SDGs 4
SDGs 11
SDGs
SDGs 8
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara