MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
North Sumatra Police Chief Gives A Public Lecture At USU
North Sumatra Police Chief gives a public lecture at USU
Published At
06 November 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
North Sumatra Police Chief gives a public lecture at USU
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 06 November 2023

Security is an important aspect of running a safe and democratic election. Such as physical security, maintaining public order, and overcoming potential conflicts," said Prof. Muryanto.

USU PR- Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) organized a public lecture entitled "Security and Order Ahead of the 2024 Elections". It occurred at the USU’s Faculty of Economics and Business(FEB) Hall on Monday (23/10/2023).

This public lecture directly presented the North Sumatra Regional Police Chief (Kapolda Sumut), Inspector General of Police Agung Setia Imam Effendi, as a guest speaker.

General elections(elections) are the main pillar of a democratic system, where people have the opportunity to elect their representatives who will represent their interests in government. Therefore, USU Rector Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos, M.Si emphasized the importance of community participation and understanding in facing challenges in democracy.

“Security is an important aspect of running a safe and democratic election. Such as physical security, maintaining public order, and overcoming potential conflicts,” said Prof. Muryanto.

Furthermore, the USU Rector revealed that this public lecture can provide understanding and additional information, which is needed to create a conducive situation towards the 2024 Election. The USU Rector also invited everyone to jointly maintain the peace of democracy by ensuring that voting rights as citizens are respected.

"I believe, with the spirit of togetherness and awareness of the importance of elections in democratic life, we can undergo the upcoming elections successfully," said Prof. Muryanto.

Inspector General of Police Agung Setia Imam Effendi stated that the theme raised was very relevant in increasing understanding related to the correlation between the implementation of security and the implementation of elections. Inspector General of Police Agung Setia Imam Effendi also emphasized that in every event, the security aspect has a very important role.

"A very good theme for us to be able to open literacy related to the correlation between the implementation of security and the implementation of elections," Agung explained.

Finally, Police Inspector General Agung Setia Imam Effendi explained that the latest regulation of the KPU, Regulation Number 20 of 2003, allows campaigning within campuses, and this is what makes it important for us to be prepared. The North Sumatra Regional Police Chief also welcomed the idea of a new campaign model that allows intellectuals to be actively involved in the dynamics of the election process.

"So we need to prepare a new campaign model. I am very happy to see that there is room for intellectuals to follow the dynamics of the election," Agung said.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Muhammad Andriansyah - Humas

News
Education
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara