MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Vocational Education
Diploma Program In Secretarial Studies
Diploma Program
Secretarial Studies
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Diploma Program in Secretarial at the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is one of the study programs in office management and secretarial that offers vocational education with a focus on secretarial practical knowledge.

This study program has four employment concentrations: junior secretaries, personal assistants, office administration staff, and banking staff. Through lecture activities emphasizing practicum, graduates of the Diploma Program in Secretarial are expected to have the necessary skills to work in an actual office environment as competent, ethical, and globally-minded secretarial intermediate experts.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

dipl-kesekretariatan@usu.ac.id

Diploma Program in Secretarial Studies

Accredited Baik Sekali

1350/SK/BAN-PT/Ak.KP/D3/IV/2023

Vision of Diploma Program in Secretarial Studies

To become a provider of Diploma education and teaching in the Office Management and Secretariat field that has superior competence in Office Management, morals, global outlook, and competitiveness.

Mission of Diploma Program in Secretarial Studies

Education

Organizing education that is oriented towards the formation of graduates who have competence, morality, global insight and technical skills in the secretarial field in accordance with the demands of the world of work.

Professional Graduates

Carrying out vocational education and teaching activities in the secretarial field so as to produce reliable graduates in the field of office administration.

Service

Improve services to students and other stakeholders.

Collaboration

Increasing networks and cooperation with private and government institutions as well as professional organizations and other institutions of national and international standards.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Office Administration

Secretarial

Contact Us
Diploma Program in Secretarial Studies
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Tri Dharma Ujung No.1, Padang Bulan, Kec. Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20155

dipl-kesekretariatan@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara