MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Immediately Launches ASA Service And Faculty Public Relations
USU Immediately Launches ASA Service and Faculty Public Relations
Published At
03 August 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Immediately Launches ASA Service and Faculty Public Relations
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 03 August 2021

USU PUBLIC RELATION-MEDAN: To follow up on the Socialization of Bureaucratic Reform that had been held previously at the university leadership level, the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Bureaucratic Reform Team visited the faculties to prepare for the implementation of Bureaucratic Reform and the establishment of Faculty Public Relation within USU environment. This activity started on Wednesday (7/21/2021) afternoon, took place at the Faculty of Medicine and ended on following Wednesday (7/28/2021) at the Graduate School.

The socialization was attended by the University Secretary of USU, Prof. Dr. dr. Muhammad Fidel Ganis Siregar, M.Ked (OG), Sp.OG (K), the Chair of USU Bureaucratic Reform, Dr. Nurman Achmad, S. Sos., M. Soc.Sc., Head of the Office of Protocol and Promotion Public Relations, Amalia Meutia, M Psi, Psychologist, along with the PR team and the university secretariat. Meanwhile, the related faculties were represented by the dean of the faculties and the vice deans of the faculties.

University Secretary of USU said the visit to 15 faculties and the Graduate School would later be followed up by the establishment of a One-Stop Application (ASA) service in each faculty, starting the e-office system, agenda and whistleblower system, and updating faculty website governance and also the establishment of faculty public relations. He hopes that the faculties are able to immediately implement new policies established by the USU Rector, so they can accelerate the realization of Transformation Towards the Ultimate which is spirit of USU towards internationalization.

The Chairs of USU Bureaucratic Reform, Dr. Nurman Achmad S.Sos., M.Soc.Sc, in his presentation regarding Bureaucratic Reform Transformation explained several stages of improvement that will be taken, as well as the establishment of a Corruption-Free Territorial Integrity Zone (ZI-WBK) in various faculties and existing work units in the USU environment. There are six levers that ZI-WBK must meet such as change management, supervision, accountability, governance, HR management and service quality.

“The establishment of One-Stop Application (ASA) service in each faculty is an urgent need. In the future, this application will be carried out to manage effective and efficient correspondence at the faculties. The ASA faculty will facilitate 25 different type of services, including a Certificate of Values, Letter of Entitlement to Take Thesis Examination, Application for Claiming Diploma, and others,” Dr. Nurman explained.

In addition to the explanation, USU's Head of Public Relations, Amalia Meutia, M.Psi., Psychologist, uttered that the need for a faculty public relations facility equipped with faculty websites and social media facilities, is an urgent matter to be implemented immediately, particularly to support the availability and completeness of faculty information required by the public. Furthermore, a well-managed website and social media will be one of the supporting factors that contribute to the university internationalization goals.

“With the existence of faculty public relations, university public relations will automatically be assisted in carrying out their duties to improve the university image and provide the most up to date and detailed information to the public. It also possible to guarantee the speed and accuracy of the information obtained. The coordination system between the faculty public relations and the university public relations is expected to synergize well," Amalia said.

In the discussion session, a number of problems and obstacles to immediately implement these programs were revealed. Among them is the unavailability of human resources that meet the required qualifications, owing to the lack of human resources in most faculties. Similarly with the availability of facilities and infrastructure in the form of rooms and tools that require university support for immediate realization.

“Obviously, for ASA, there must be a room that is quite representative and strategic, so that the people whose needs are being served feel at ease. We will look for and evaluate some of the available and suitable rooms for this purpose. If it needs to be rehabilitated, it will be done right away.Whereas, we will also immediately select people from the faculties to be assigned for the faculty public relations officer. If it is not possible, we will conduct a new recruitment that requires the appropriate qualifications," said Dr. Ir Tavi Supriana, MS, the Dean of the USU Faculty of Agriculture, one of the faculties that got the first turn in the socialization visit. (RJ/©ULC)

Author: Renny Julia Harahap - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Bayu Nugraha, Rizki Hakim Lubis - PR

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara