MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Conferral Of Specialist Marks And Introduction Of New PPDS Students In Anesthesiology And Intensive Therapy Study Program
Conferral of Specialist Marks and Introduction of New PPDS Students in Anesthesiology and Intensive Therapy Study Program
Published At
12 February 2025
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Conferral of Specialist Marks and Introduction of New PPDS Students in Anesthesiology and Intensive Therapy Study Program
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 12 February 2025

“We hope these graduates can contribute to various hospitals in Indonesia, especially in areas that still lack anesthesiologists. We also encourage this study program to immediately open subspecialist education in the future, considering that the available teaching staff and resources are quite adequate,” said Prof. Fidel.

Public Relations USU - The Department of Anesthesiology and Intensive Therapy, Faculty of Medicine, Universitas Sumatera Utara (FK USU) held an Anesthesiology and Intensive Therapy Specialist Expertise Awarding event, Introducing new Specialist Medical Education Program (PPDS) Participants and Introducing new Anesthesiology and Intensive Therapy Subspecialists. This event occurred at the Grand Ballroom 3rd Floor of the Adimulia Hotel on Thursday (06/02/2025).

 

USU Secretary Prof. Dr. Muhammad Fidel Ganis Siregar, M.Ked (OG), Sp.OG (K)-Fer also appreciated the Anesthesiology and Intensive Therapy Study Program of FK USU for its contribution to producing quality medical personnel.

 

This year, the program has produced the 207th to 216th alumni and two consultants. In addition, 15 new PPDS were accepted to undergo specialist education in anesthesiology and intensive therapy.

 

“We hope these graduates can contribute to various hospitals in Indonesia, especially in areas that still lack anesthesiologists. We also encourage this study program to immediately open subspecialist education in the future, considering that the available teaching staff and resources are quite adequate,” said Prof. Fidel.

 

This event is an important moment in the development of the USU FK Anesthesiology and Intensive Therapy Study Program, which has been established since 2001 and produced 216 graduates until 2021. During this period, 14 new participants were introduced as PPDS, increasing the number of active students to 92.

 

The Head of the Anesthesiology and Intensive Therapy Study Program of FK USU, dr. Andriamuri Primaputra Lubis, M. Ked (An), SpAn-TI, Subsp. TI (K), revealed that this study program strives to develop international cooperation. Starting May 2025, the program will partner with the Department of Anesthesia, University of Malaya, Malaysia. USU Anesthesiology and Intensive Therapy PPDS will be sent to Malaysia as observers for one month in this collaboration.

 

“This is one of the internationalization steps of the USU Anesthesiology and Intensive Therapy Study Program. We want to continue to improve the quality of education and broaden the horizons of students with experiences from abroad,” said Dr. Andriamuri.

 

Furthermore, he highlighted various achievements that have been made by the USU Anesthesiology and Intensive Therapy PPDS in the last two years. One of the proudest achievements is the success of USU students in achieving the top five rankings in the national exam. Dr. Amat Habibie became one of the graduates who obtained the best score in this year's national exam. In addition, the study program also received an award from the Indonesian World Records Museum (MURI) for its success in conducting basic life support training to public vehicle drivers with the most significant number of participants.

 

Vice Dean I of FK USU, Dr. dr. Delyuzar, M.Ked(PA), Sp.PA(K), in his speech emphasized the important role of anesthesia and intensive therapy specialists in the medical world.

 

“Anesthesia specialists are needed in various fields, assisting surgeons, handling intensive care in hospitals, and pain management. The USU Faculty of Medicine is committed to producing medical professionals ready to contribute to health services,” said Dr. Delyuzar.

 

He also added that the USU Faculty of Medicine will continue to improve the quality of education and ensure that students can complete their education on time so that more specialists can contribute to the world of health.

 

The event was also an emotional moment for the graduates who had completed their education. In his speech, one of the graduates expressed his gratitude to all the lecturers and academic staff who had guided them during their education.

 

“We are very grateful for the guidance of our teachers, especially Prof. Budi and the entire academic team who have supported us. Thank you to our families who have faithfully accompanied us during this challenging educational process. We hope that the knowledge we gain can benefit the wider community,” he said.

 

With the achievements that have been made, the Anesthesiology and Intensive Therapy Study Program at FK USU continues to be committed to improving the quality of education and its contribution to the medical world, both at the national and international levels. 

News
SDGs
SDGs 3
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara