MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Scholarships
USU Van Deventer-Maas Indonesia (VDMI) Scholarship 2023
USU Van Deventer-Maas Indonesia (VDMI) Scholarship 2023

Requirements

Undergraduate or Diploma 4 students in 1st–3rd year and Diploma 3 students in 1st–2nd year
Maximum age of 27 years
Coming from an economically disadvantaged family (evidenced by SKTM and/or a letter of recommendation from the campus stating the financial condition / economic capacity of the student concerned)
GPA ≥ 3.00
Majors: Agriculture, Fisheries, Animal Husbandry, Architecture, Arts and Culture, Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics, Physics, Communication, Economics, Education, Engineering, Language, Management, Forestry, Geography, Health/Medicine, History, Informatics, Statistics, etc. (except Law, Political Science, International Relations, State Administration, Religion, and Theology)
Active in an organization or community
Being fluent in English is preferred.

Selection Process

Van Deventer-Maas Indonesia Scholarship applications must be made online at ers.vdms-scholarship.org. 
You can download the required document list form after completing the online registration. If you are invited to the second stage, you will need to submit the required documents to the Person in Charge on your campus.

 

Required Documents:

List of required documents (download here)

Statement of Financial Disadvantage (SKTM) or a letter of recommendation from the school or campus (signed by the Rector/Dean/Head of the Study Program) stating the economic condition of the family.

Latest academic transcript or GPA (minimum 3.00)

Official salary slip of parents or guardians, either from government or private institutions. If both parents work, it is mandatory to attach their salary slips, maximum of the past two months.

Statement of employment and income of parents/guardians (if self-employed), legalized by the Kelurahan, or a statement of employment and income made and signed on stamp duty of Rp. 10,000,-.

Photocopy of Indonesian ID Card, Student ID Card, and Family Card

Photocopy of the front page of the savings book (after being declared passed)

Electricity or telephone bills (maximum of the past 2 months)

Essay about yourself (family, studies and social activities, and achievements), what you know about VDMI, why VDMI should choose you to be a scholarship recipient, what you expect if you are selected as a scholarship grantee, and what you will do for the community after completing the scholarship and graduating from college. (Minimum 1.5 A4 pages, Font: Times New Roman, size 11, and space 1).

 

Applicants who have passed the first stage are expected to collect the required documents in accordance with the list of required documents, collected at the Office of the Directorate of Student Achievement and Alumni Affairs using a RED folder.

Scholarship Schedule
Registration	24 Februari 2023 - 14 Maret 2023 (15:00)
Selection Process	-
Announcements	14 April 2023
Status	Closed
Show More

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara