MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Cultural Science
Master's Program In English Language
Master Program
English Language
Universitas Sumatera Utara

As an advanced study program after the Undergraduate Program in English Literature, the Master's Program in English Language of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) takes a more in-depth look at the English Language, including an in-depth analysis of the language's origins and etymology as well as its global impact. Supported by English literature experts with national teaching certifications and an integrated curriculum, we are determined to provide intense and effective guidance and learning experiences to our students. Our goal is to enhance students' abilities and prepare them to become competent and excellent English literature experts in their fields so that they can compete both in the national and international markets. Graduates of the Master's Program in English Language are expected to have expertise in the philosophy of science, research methodology, cross-cultural communication, sociolinguistics, and a deep understanding of crisis discourse.

Graduates of the Master's Program in English Language have the potential to pursue careers in various fields, including as translators, educators, embassy staff, or language editors.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

magister.bahasainggris@usu.ac.id

Master's Program in English Language

Accredited Very Good

No. 1769/SK/BAN-PT/Ak.KP/M/V/2023

Vision of Master's Program in English Language

To become a leading center of excellence in education, development, and study of socio-culture and the English language theoretically and practically by the year 2026.

Mission of Master's Program in English Language

Scientific Quality

To enhance the quality of knowledge (education, development, and research) in the English language.

Research

To disseminate research findings in the English language not only at regional and national levels but also internationally through journal publications and scientific events (seminars, conferences, etc.).

Academic Cooperations

To develop academic and professional cooperation (exchange of teaching staff and/or students) with similar study programs at national and international levels.

International Level

To not only achieve the highest national accreditation level but also to be recognized as a study program at the international level.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Contact Us
Master's Program in English Language
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Universitas No.19, Padang Bulan, Kec. Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20155

(061) - 8215356 Fax.: (061)8215956

magister.bahasainggris@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara