MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Agriculture
Undergraduate Program In Agrotechnology At The North Nias Regency Campus
Undergraduate Program
Agrotechnology at the North Nias Regency Campus
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Undergraduate Program in Agrotechnology at the North Nias Regency Campus, which is under the auspices of the Faculty of Agriculture (FP) of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), has a vision to become a superior and competitive study program at the national level in the development of sustainable tropical food crop cultivation technology and plantations. This study program aims to produce graduates who have the ability to identify, formulate, and solve problems in the field of agrotechnology, especially in the context of tropical food crops and plantations. Graduates are expected to be able to become planters, breeders, novice researchers, managers, and entrepreneurs with noble character who can contribute significantly to the economic development of society.

Our program offers specialization options for students who want to pursue the field of agrotechnology. Not only that, our program also has the advantage of being supported by 68 full-time lecturers including 9 professors who are experienced in their fields and ready to provide knowledge and practical skills for students to develop in the world of agrotechnology. Our program is very important and strategic to develop the agricultural sector in the North Nias Regency area through human resources (HR) educated by USU. Comprised of qualified individuals, we have a focus on developing the latest agricultural technology that can improve the productivity and quality of agricultural products in the area.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

psdku2021@gmail.com

Undergraduate Program in Agrotechnology at the North Nias Regency Campus

Accredited Good

4660/SK/BAN-PT/Ak/S/VI/2024

Vision of Undergraduate Program in Agrotechnology at the North Nias Regency Campus

To become a study program that is superior and able to compete at the national level in the development and technology of tropical food crop cultivation and sustainable plantations.

Mission of Undergraduate Program in Agrotechnology at the North Nias Regency Campus

Education

Organizing educational programs in agrotechnology, which are a forum for character development and professionalism in accordance with agricultural science and technology development.

Graduates

Producing graduates who can compete nationally, have an entrepreneurial spirit, and develop themselves according to the work environment.

Research and Community Service

Develop and improve research and community service as a source of consultation/information and reference for the agricultural industry business world, especially in the sustainable cultivation of tropical food crops and plantations.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Contact Us
Undergraduate Program in Agrotechnology at the North Nias Regency Campus
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Omasio, Lawira Satua, Lotu District, North Nias Regency, 22856

(+62) - 618213181

psdku2021@gmail.com

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara