MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Computer Science And Information Technology
Master's Program In Informatics Engineering
Master Program
Informatics Engineering
Universitas Sumatera Utara

As an advanced study program after the Undergraduate Programs in Computer Science & Information Technology, the Master's Program in Informatics Engineering of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) has a primary focus on equipping students with in-depth insights, technical expertise, and world-class competencies to compete in the global market.

Supported by lecturers who are experts in the field of informatics engineering with national teaching certificates and supported by an integrated curriculum, we have a deep commitment to providing intensive and effective guidance and learning experiences to our students. Our goal is to enhance students' abilities and prepare them to take on the role of technopreneurs and IT experts who are competent in their fields, as well as excellent and able to compete in the national and international markets. Graduates of the Master's Program in Informatics Engineering are expected to pursue professions in various technology fields, including technopreneurship, IT consultants, data scientists, etc.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

mti@usu.ac.id

Master's Program in Informatics Engineering

Accredited Very Good

No. 076/SK/LAM-INFOKOM/Ak/M/XII/2022

Vision of Master's Program in Informatics Engineering

To become a Study Program that excels in Education, Research, and Social Contribution nationally and internationally in the field of informatics engineering, especially in the fields of Cyber Security, Machine Learning, and the Internet of Things.

Mission of Master's Program in Informatics Engineering

Education and Research

To organize and develop national and international quality education and research in the field of Informatics Engineering, especially Cyber Security, Machine Learning, and the Internet of Things.

Innovative Science and Technology

To develop and disseminate innovative science and technology that can make social contributions in the frame of Tropical Science and Medicine, Agroindustry, Local Wisdom, Energy [sustainable], Natural Resources [biodiversity, forest marine, mine, tourism], Technology [appropriate] and Arts [ethnic] (TALENTA) USU.

Nation's Welfare and Progress

To utilize science and technology for the welfare and progress of the nation through the organization of research and community service activities while upholding ethical and moral values.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Machine Learning

Internet Of Things

Cyber Security

Contact Us
Master's Program in Informatics Engineering
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Gedung B Lantai 1, Fakultas Ilmu Komputer dan Teknologi Informasi, Jalan Universitas No. 9A Kampus USU Padang Bulan, Medan, Sumatera Utara - 20155

(+62) 812 6000 6797

mti@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara