MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Komnas HAM And USU Collaborate To Resolve Agrarian Conflict In North Sumatra
Komnas HAM and USU Collaborate to Resolve Agrarian Conflict in North Sumatra
Published At
29 October 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Komnas HAM and USU Collaborate to Resolve Agrarian Conflict in North Sumatra
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 29 October 2021

USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin said the agrarian seminar was a follow-up to the implementation of the cooperation between the Indonesian National Human Rights Commission and USU. This activity is expected to be a sharing of information experience and knowledge from competent sources so as to open a healthy, intelligent and enlightening discussion space from elements of government, society and academia.

USU PR - The National Human Rights Commission (Komnas HAM) of the Republic of Indonesia (RI) collaborated with the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) to find a solution to the agrarian conflict in North Sumatra (North Sumatra). The collaboration was implemented by both parties by holding an Agrarian Seminar with the theme "Agrarian Conflict Resolution in North Sumatra Province" on Thursday-Friday, October 21-22, 2021 at the Universitas Sumatera Utara Campus, in a hybrid manner.

USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin said the agrarian seminar was a follow-up to the implementation of the cooperation between the Indonesian National Human Rights Commission and USU. This activity is expected to be a sharing of information experience and knowledge from competent sources so as to open a healthy, intelligent and enlightening discussion space from elements of government, society and academia.

“Producing collaborative insights on the implementation of regulations and policies in North Sumatra, Opening insight and concern for the people and the State of Indonesia to create a just and prosperous Indonesia," Muryanto said.

To strengthen the collaboration between Komnas HAM and USU regarding the resolution of agrarian conflicts in North Sumatra, Deputy Rector III Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Z Hasibuan and the Chairperson of the Indonesian National Human Rights Commission Ahmad Taufan Damanik signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) followed by a memorandum of cooperation.

Dr. Poppy explained that his party welcomed the collaboration with Komnas HAM which was immediately followed up with the USU Faculty of Social and Political Sciences (FISIP). "This is a good example, that the MoU was immediately followed up with a cooperation agreement related to human rights enforcement in North Sumatra," she said.

The Chairman of the National Human Rights Commission of the Republic of Indonesia, Ahmad Taufan Damanik, in his speech said that the agrarian conflict in North Sumatra is still an issue that is being fought for and has not yet found an effective resolution model.

He explained that the Indonesian National Human Rights Commission pays serious attention to agrarian conflicts, both land and natural resource issues, because they involve human rights and the livelihoods of many people, and their impact is closely related to the welfare of the Indonesian people. In addition, agrarian conflicts are also a problem with the largest number of public complaints received by the Indonesian National Human Rights Commission.

"Of course it's not easy to finish. The complexity of overlapping regulations, capital, political and socio-cultural issues is still a challenge, so we all need clarity in addressing this issue. For this reason, we invite elements of universities and academics in studies and analysis that can be a force in resolving agrarian conflicts," said Taufan Damanik.

Based on data from the National Human Rights Commission of the Republic of Indonesia, North Sumatra is the area with the second largest complaint after DKI Jakarta. Taufan admitted that this indicates that the people of North Sumatra are very proactive in fighting for their rights. So he is optimistic that the parties in North Sumatra can position this agrarian problem to find an effective solution.

The Governor of North Sumatra Eddy Rahmayadi, who represented by the Assistant for Government and People's Welfare, Mhd Fitriyus, on behalf of the Provincial Government of North Sumatra, welcomed the efforts to resolve the agrarian conflict in North Sumatra carried out by the Indonesian National Human Rights Commission and the University of North Sumatra.

“Of course, in resolving agrarian conflicts, we agree to prioritize the principle of justice. We underline that regardless of the problems faced by the community, whether individuals, groups and institutions, the state must stand above the law and be present for the community to protect and solve the problems faced by the community," Fitriyus said.

Fitriyus also conveyed that the North Sumatra Provincial Government requested the support of all parties, either it is central government, the Indonesian National Human Rights Commission, academics and universities in this case the Universitas Sumatera Utara so that the tangled threads of agrarian issues in North Sumatra gradually unraveled, with commitment from all parties.

Presidential Chief of Staff General (Ret.) Dr. Moeldoko in his keynote speech with the theme "Strategies for Accelerating Agrarian Reform" said that the agrarian reforms being pursued by the government are expected to be a buffer for the social economy. For this reason, a joint commitment is needed between the central government, regional governments and the community to resolve agrarian conflicts.

The Dean of USU FISIP, Hendra Harahap, PhD added that USU will respond to this by involving study centers and study programs such as the Center for Agrarian Studies and Peasants' Rights (PUSKAHAP), the Political Science Study Program and the Sociology Study Program located at USU FISIP to be involved in studies in order to produce various baselines and strategies for resolving agrarian conflicts from various conflict models that occurred in North Sumatra.

This seminar presented a speaker, Deputy Minister of ATR/BPN, Dr. Surya Tjandra, S.dH., LL.M who in his presentation emphasized that the resolution of agrarian conflicts must use the heart. "This is a message from the President Jokowi to me, a combination of heart, law and politics must be put forward in the resolution of agrarian conflicts, so it must be full of caution," he said.

Surya also said that agrarian conflicts must be seen clearly because sometimes the government is wrong, but the government is also right. He explained that not infrequently people in conflict are people who have business or industrial interests, local governments also sometimes have political motives.

“So, in North Sumatra, a collaborative approach is needed with a heart, law and political approach. We have to see it clearly so that the solution that is carried out is truly for the welfare of the community. This is what we must pay attention to together, Komnas HAM and USU as well as the provincial government must look at this holistically," he said.

In addition to the Deputy Minister of ATR/BPN, Syska Naomi Hutagalung was also the presenter – (Intermediary Deputy II KSP), Apri Dwi Sumarah, S.Hut (Head of the Center for Social Forestry and Partnerships (BPSKL), Prof. Saturnino 'Jun' Borras Jr (ISS). Erasmus University Rotterdam), Prof. Dr. Budi Agustono, MS (Universitas Sumatera Utara), Prof. Christian Lund (University of Copenhagen), Henry Saragih (SPI), Abdon Nababan (AMAN Sumatra).(©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - PR

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara