MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Holds Ceremony To Commemorate National Education Day
USU Holds Ceremony to Commemorate National Education Day
Published At
15 May 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Holds Ceremony to Commemorate National Education Day
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 15 May 2023

Let us enliven this day with the spirit to continue the embodiment of free learning, educate generations of Pancasila students who are smart and characterized, and bring Indonesia leaping into the future with liberating education. Happy National Education Day, said Prof. Mury.

USU PR - Commemorating National Education Day (Hardiknas), the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held a ceremony in the yard of the Central Administration Bureau Building Tuesday (2/5/2023).

The theme raised at Hardiknas 2023 is "Moving Together to Celebrate Merdeka Belajar." In the 24 episodes of the independent learning program that has been launched by the Ministry of Education, Culture, Research, and Technology, USU is one of the universities that has made efforts to support the realization of Ki Hajar Dewantara's noble ideals, namely education that demands the talents, interests, and potential of students so that they can achieve the highest safety and happiness as a human being and as a member of society.

"Big changes are happening around us, everywhere from the West to the East of Indonesia. The 24 episodes of independent learning that have been launched bring us closer to the noble ideals of Ki Hajar Dewantara," said USU Rector, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., in his speech.

Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si. conveyed that the independent learning program provides various benefits ranging from encouraging the creativity of educators, broad access to off-campus learning, improving the quality of learning, and expanding scholarship programs to collaborative research support.

The Rector advised Hardiknas 2023 to be more enthusiastic about realizing independent learning to give birth to a smart and characterful generation.

"Let us enliven this day with the spirit to continue realizing freedom of learning, educate a generation of smart Pancasila students with character, and bring Indonesia to leap into the future with liberating education. Happy National Education Day," said Prof. Mury.

The rector added Universitas Sumatera Utara sees the Merdeka Belajar Kampus Merdeka Program as an important milestone in changing the teaching and learning process policy in higher education that combines academic and vocational learning programs.

Additionally, Vice Rector I for Academic, Student Affairs, and Alumni Affairs of the Universitas Sumatera Utara, Dr. Edy Ikhsan, S.H., M.A., hopes educators can immediately adjust to the learning process and information technology development.

Through this transformation, students will become more directed in building their identity for entrepreneurship, continuing education, and getting a career.

"Educators must also be quick to adjust to outside developments, developments in information technology, and development in learning methods. All must move quickly to adjust so that we can achieve and get the learning output itself; our children will succeed in their struggle to get a job or career or continue their education. The most important thing is to open discourse for them to build their identity for entrepreneurship," said Dr. Edy Ikhsan. (Bambang Riyanto)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang, Muhammad Andriansyah - Humas

News
Education
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara