MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Pharmacy
Undergraduate Program In Pharmacy
Undergraduate Program
Pharmacy
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Undergraduate Program in Pharmacy (PSSF) was established in 1969. Currently, the program has been equipped with 9 comfortable laboratories that greatly support the learning process intensively and effectively.

Its commitment to becoming a center of higher education that excels academically and can compete at the global level is reflected in the provision of regular classes for domestic students and international classes for participants from abroad. Supported by outstanding individuals with national teaching certifications, our teaching staff are able to guide students to be ready to work in various fields of pharmacy, including in pharmacies, hospitals, pharmaceutical industry, food and cosmetics, drug distribution, and also in the government sector.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

s1farmasi@usu.ac.id

Undergraduate Program in Pharmacy

Accredited Unggul

0359/LAM-PTKes/Akr/Sar/V/2022

Vision of Undergraduate Program in Pharmacy

To become a leading international pharmacy undergraduate study program that emphasizes local excellence in 2024.

Mission of Undergraduate Program in Pharmacy

Education

Organizing quality undergraduate pharmacy education.

Research

Conducting research in the field of pharmaceutical science technology and clinical and community pharmacy that is innovative, competitive, and sustainable that benefits society and the development of science and technology.

Community Service

Implementing community service in the field of pharmacy that aims to improve the welfare and health of the community.

Partnership

Organizing and developing partnerships and networks of study programs in the fields of education, research, and community service.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Pharmaceutical Biology

Pharmaceutical Chemistry

Pharmacology

Pharmaceutical Science

Contact Us
Undergraduate Program in Pharmacy
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Tri Dharma No. 5, USU Padang Bulan Campus 4th Entrance

+62618223558

s1farmasi@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara