MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Fasilkom-TI's Dies Natalis: Towards Global Innovation
Fasilkom-TI's Dies Natalis: Towards Global Innovation
Published At
30 November 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Fasilkom-TI's Dies Natalis: Towards Global Innovation
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 30 November 2023

Therefore, we should not limit our education to local or national affairs, but we must be able to interact with people from other countries. That is the most important thing about internationalization," said USU Rector.

USU PR- With the theme "12 Years of Collaboration Towards Global Innovation", the Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology ( Fasilkom-TI) of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) celebrated its 12th Dies Natalis on Saturday-Sunday (11/18-19/2023)

In his remarks at the Funwalk event on the second day, USU Rector Prof. Dr. Muryanto, S.Sos., M.Si., emphasized the importance of internationalization. He said that the most important aspect of internationalization is not to limit education to local or national concerns. Students and other academic staff must be able to interact with people from other countries.

"Therefore, we should not limit our education to local or national affairs, but we must be able to interact with people from other countries. That is the most important thing about internationalization," said Prof. Muryanto.

On the same occasion, the USU Rector also said that the key to successful internationalization is to not view the curriculum as a fixed standard that cannot be changed.

"Never regard the curriculum as a holy book that cannot be changed. Because if we don't adapt, it will be a problem for Fasilkom-TI," said Prof. Mury.

On the other hand, USU Vice Rector I for Academic Affairs, Student Affairs, and Alumni Affairs, Dr. Edy Ikhsan, S.H., M.A., expressed his hope for Fasilkom-TI in its new age. He hopes that Fasilkom-TI will become a leading educational institution in Computer Science and Information Technology and a reference for developing science and innovation, especially in supporting development and improvement efforts at USU.

"To become a leading educational institution in its field in Indonesia and to become a reference for the development of science and innovation in the field of computing and information technology," said Dr. Edy.

The Dean of Fasilkom-TI, Dr. Maya Silvi Lydia, B.Sc., M.Sc., said the faculty's research performance has improved. Fasilkom-TI has published 1,490 scientific publications indexed by Scopus.

Dr. Maya also said that Fasilkom-TI owns and manages an international journal with Sinta 4 accreditation, the Journal of Computing and Applied Informatics (JoCAI). Fasilkom-TI also regularly hosts the international conferences "International Conference on Computing and Applied Informatics (ICCAI)" since 2016 and "Data Science, Artificial Intelligence, and Business Analytics (DATABIA)" since 2020.

In an interview, Dr. Maya conveys that not all achievements are attained smoothly. Fasilkom-TI certainly experienced many challenges in every accomplishment, one of which was the limited infrastructure. However, Dr. Maya said these challenges are not a barrier for FASILKOM IT's academic community to compete.

"There are still challenges, perhaps in terms of infrastructure," said Dr. Maya.

Dies Natalis Fasilkom-TI Committee Chairman Jabbar A. Panggabean, S.Kom., said this event was the first collaboration between the Faculty Dean's Office and alums. He hopes that this Dies Natalis can be a milestone for other activities.

"My first hope is that the collaboration will continue; secondly, of course, not only in formal activities but in the future, I also hope that there will be more technical activities," said Jabbar.

As information, to enliven the event, Fasilkom-TI also held an Alumni House by bringing in three alums as speakers and a Funwalk attended by the USU Rector.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Muhammad Andriansyah - Humas

News
Dies Natalis
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara