MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Accepts 3,388 New Students For SNBT 2023
USU Accepts 3,388 New Students for SNBT 2023
Published At
21 June 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Accepts 3,388 New Students for SNBT 2023
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 21 June 2023

USU has increased the quota for SNBT admission from 30 percent to 40 percent of the overall admission quota (SNBP, SNBT, and SMM). This policy was taken to provide greater opportunities for prospective students to be able to enjoy education at USU with the Single Tuition Fee (UKT) scheme. The SMM (Independent Entrance Selection) allocation itself is reduced from 50 percent of the quota to 40 percent.

USU PR: Starting the admission of new students for the 2023/2024 academic year, the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) accepted 3,388 students through the National Selection Based on Test (SNBT) route in 2023. With this number, the Universitas Sumatera Utara is included in the top 20 state universities with the highest total acceptance for the 2023 SNBT.

This was conveyed by the Vice Rector I of the Universitas Sumatera Utara, Dr. Edy Ikhsan, SH, MA, forwarding information on the Announcement of National Selection Results Based on Tests in 2023 issued by the National Selection Implementation Team for New Student Admission (SNPMB) PTN 2023 Kemendikbudristek, Tuesday (20/6), in Jakarta.

In the announcement, the Universitas Sumatera Utara ranked 9th out of the top 10 national state universities in Indonesia with the most student applicants, namely 41,701 people. USU also ranks 16th nationally, PTN study programs throughout Indonesia in the level of tightness of interest, which is occupied by the USU Nutrition Study Program with a tightness ratio of 1.64 percent. The number of new USU students admitted through KIP Lectures for the SNBT in 2023 amounted to 935 people, or around 27.6 percent more than the total students admitted to this.

This was explained by USU Vice Rector I, Dr. Edy Ikhsan, SH, MA, in an official news release submitted by the Universitas Sumatera Utara to the media after the announcement.

“USU has increased the quota for SNBT admission from 30 percent to 40 percent of the overall admission quota (SNBP, SNBT, and SMM). This policy was taken to provide greater opportunities for prospective students to be able to enjoy education at USU with the Single Tuition Fee (UKT) scheme. The SMM (Independent Entrance Selection) allocation itself is reduced from 50 percent of the quota to 40 percent,” said Vice Rector I USU.

The science study program with the highest tightness at USU in this selection is occupied by the Nutrition, Computer Science, Medical Education Study Program. As for the social science study program family, the highest tightness is occupied by Communication, Psychology and Entrepreneurship Study Programs. North Sumatra Province is the third largest recipient of graduates with KIPK status, namely 7,020 participants.

USU Rector Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., congratulated the students who had successfully passed through the SNBT 2023 route. He hopes that participants who have not passed should not be discouraged and give up because there is still one more admission path that can be tried, Independent Selection.

The Rector also conveyed to the public not to believe in individuals who offer to help get into the Universitas Sumatera Utara with certain requirements, outside the official channels that have been determined.

“We hope that the community will be smart and not easily tricked by people who promise to enter USU with special channels and ask for payment. Never believe them, especially if you have to pay millions or even hundreds of millions. There is no such thing. USU only accepts students based on the official channels available, and the entire process is transparent and announced to the public,” said the USU Rector.

Meanwhile, the Head of the USU Office of Public Relations, Protocol, and Promotion reminded students who were accepted on the SNBT route in 2023 to pay attention to the next important stages. He said, the re-registration process and completing the files are things that should not be neglected all the requirements. Re-registration in the form of filling in basic data and uploading files can be done online through the website https://registrasi.usu.ac.id from June 21 to 29, 2023.

“To the new students who successfully passed the SNBT, we say welcome and join the USU family. We are proud of all of you, who are the best choice of all USU SNBT participants this year. For that, please pay close attention to the details of the next stages, note the important dates, and make an alarm if necessary so that it is not missed. Often students are late in re-registering because they do not pay attention to deadlines and requirements that must be met. If neglected, the risk is that the participant's graduation status can be canceled immediately, “Amalia reminded.

In addition, Kahumas USU also reminded that currently, new student registration for the Mandiri Test has been opened, namely from June 5 to July 12, 2023. Where the exam will take place from July 15 to 21, 2023. For how to register and other USU Independent information can be accessed through https://penerimaan.usu.ac.id.

 

Author: Renny Julia - Public Relations Staff

Interviewee: Dr. Edy Ikhsan, SH, MA - USU Vice Rector I

Photographer: Special - Special 

News
Admission
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara