MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Inaugurated Two Permanent Professors, Rector: Must Be Able To Encourage Innovation And Downstream
USU Inaugurated Two Permanent Professors, Rector: Must Be Able to Encourage Innovation and Downstream
Published At
16 November 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Inaugurated Two Permanent Professors, Rector: Must Be Able to Encourage Innovation and Downstream
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 16 November 2021

USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Sc., said that the addition of two professors is still expected to encourage innovation, scientific writings and the downstreaming of scientific products to be commercialized with the industrial world. “Two days ago we also just confirmed three great masters, today we inaugurated two more. Hopefully this addition will be able to bring USU to a better level, realize the internationalization and USU's Strategic Plan, the University's Main Work Indicators and the Rector's Work Program," said the former Dean of FISIP.

USU PR - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) inaugurated two permanent professors who were inaugurated on Thursday (11/11/2021) in the Auditorium. The two professors are Professor of Humanities at the Faculty of Cultural Sciences (FIB) Prof. Dr. Drs. Budi Agustono, M.S., and Professor of Accounting at the Faculty of Economics and Business Prof. Dr. Iskandar Muda, S.E., M.Sc., Ak.

USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Sc., said that the addition of two professors is still expected to encourage innovation, scientific writings and the down streaming of scientific products to be commercialized with the industrial world.

“Two days ago we also just confirmed three great masters, today we inaugurated two more. Hopefully this addition will be able to bring USU to a better level, realize the internationalization and USU's Strategic Plan, the University's Main Work Indicators and the Rector's Work Program," said the former Dean of FISIP.

Prof. Budi Agustono in his inaugural speech raised Ethnic Conflict in Indonesia. In East Sumatra after independence, strategic positions and top government leadership were filled with movement groups with different ethnic group backgrounds and different struggle ideologies.

“When elites with backgrounds from various ethnic groups who also adhere to different ideologies are still not solid, it creates political instability. Political instability and uncertainty were increasingly felt when the movement's strategic positions in the government viewed the Malay Sultanate with suspicion, and on the other hand, the Malay Sultanate, which witnessed rapid political changes, made them hesitate to take a stand against rapid political changes," he said.

Prof. Budi explained ethnic conflicts that occurred in various regions became the root of predictions and analysis that Indonesia would lead to balkanization as happened in Eastern Europe. Forecast and analysis or also anxiety balkanization did not happen.

"Management of ethnicities that number in the hundreds needs serious attention in the midst of tightening the onslaught of globalization that is increasingly pervading ethnic bodies, especially with digital technology that spreads global culture that can affect life attitudes and ethnic awareness," said the former Dean of the Faculty of Cultural Sciences (FIB) USU.

Prof. Budi said that in North Sumatra, the contestation of economic and political resources between ethnic groups was relatively high. However, in the area which was known before independence as Tanah Deli, there was never any ethnic conflict. This could be due to the work of civic associations and civil society organizations that are able to accommodate the aspirations of ethnic groups in the public sphere.

Prof Iskandar's Speech

Prof. Dr. Iskandar Muda, S.E., M.Sc., Ak., delivered his inaugural speech entitled The Role of Low Carbon in the Formulation of the Provincial Financial Aid Fund Model for the District. He explained that carbon tax is a proxy of Low Carbon Economy Indicators which plays an important role in the approach of microeconomic climate policy and financial policy. The carbon tax has been advocated by economists as one of the most effective fiscal mechanisms to address climate change because of its ability to influence broad economic and budgeting incentives for the further goal of climate control.

“Carbon tax can align economic incentives to direct economic decision making towards low carbon. The proceeds from the Carbon Tax will generate tax revenue which can then be used to generate green innovation effects by ensuring a stable low carbon footprint,” he said.

Prof. Iskandar explained the implications of this theory can be used as material and recommendations as a role model for the budgeting pattern carried out by the provincial government and become the basis for further research in the field of Public Sector Accounting, sub-budgeting.

“This model is expected to support the implementation of a vehicle tax based on emission standards. Tax collections should no longer be based on engine capacity or vehicle segmentation. The carbon tax creates the right incentives for provincial governments to reduce CO2 to support climate protection,” he said.

While the practical implications, he added, the application of this model supports the provincial financial aid budget which is prepared based on the principles of environmental-based budget allocation, taking into account the issue of global warming, climate disasters and climate transition risks (green budgeting), simplicity of the formula, aspects of equity, adequacy, efficiency, adjustment to inflation, ensuring regional autonomy and local accountability, stable and predictable allocation. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang, Muhammad Andriansyah - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara