MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Speaker At KPU National Webinar, USU Rector Explains 6 Points For Election Success
Speaker at KPU National Webinar, USU Rector Explains 6 Points for Election Success
Published At
10 October 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Speaker at KPU National Webinar, USU Rector Explains 6 Points for Election Success
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Sunday, 10 October 2021

Together with the Mayor of Medan, Bobby Nasution, who became the trigger for the discussion, the Rector explained about efficiency, synergy and the points of success in organizing the General Election.

PR USU - Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos, M.Si, became a speaker at the National Webinar with the theme 'Synergy of Election Implementation with Stakeholders in the Success of the 2024 Simultaneous Election', Thursday (10/7/2021).

Together with the Mayor of Medan, Bobby Nasution, who became the trigger for the discussion, the Rector explained about efficiency, synergy and the points of success in organizing the General Election.

Mury explained 6 points that need to be done by the election organizers so that the general election becomes more qualified. First, calculate the principle of efficiency in holding simultaneous elections.

Second, the KPU needs to create a campaign tagline to minimize conflict in the election. “Tagline material needs to be made so that people can be friends, in every competition there must be someone who loses. If it is considered an enemy, it is not considered a competition but a fight. Now many young people have made the tagline material," said the former Dean of USU's FISIP.

Third, increase the role of young voters as role models who socialize the values ​​of political choices that determine the quality of life in the state. “Community leaders must involve young people there, socialization or massive campaigns can be done. Provide information about the importance of coming to polling stations,” he said.

Fourth, compile the process of digitally reporting campaign finance data from the success team and legislative candidates. Fifth, the design at TPS must be simplified, there are SOPs that are more concise, and provide massive information on voting procedures to election participants. Finally, the need to consider non-institutional factors in encouraging citizen participation rates.

Muryanto also explained that synergy must be carried out not only during the implementation stage, but must be built and designed between stakeholder stakeholders, so that preparations for the simultaneous elections can be well planned, so that potential problems that exist in the region and nationally can be anticipated.

The research results on the 2019 simultaneous elections said that elections were considered more efficient if they were held simultaneously and did not fully run according to initial estimates. In terms of time, it can be seen that the calculation process requires an extension of time. Meanwhile, in terms of budget costs, it turned out to be 2.07 times higher than the 2014 election. Mury also considered that in the simultaneous elections, the presidential candidate program occupied far more attention from the public and conventional media as well as social media than candidates for legislative members.

"In addition, it is necessary to test whether it is true that this simultaneous election can reduce political fatigue, because political fatigue actually occurs because the level of election competition is very tough, voters are often treated to hate issues rather than ideas and ideas, so that they are divided into 2 competing camps," he said.

“Concurrent elections have indeed been proven to increase public participation, but it is necessary to examine whether this participation is due to intense competition rather than ideological reasons for ideas and ideas. This will affect the quality of choice,” he added.

Meanwhile, Medan Mayor Muhammad Bobby Afif Nasution emphasized that the community was the successor of the election. Therefore, even though it is a few years away, many people are already talking about the 2024 election.

Bobby hopes that the election organizers pay attention to the level of public participation because the higher the level of participation, the higher the quality of public awareness in democracy.

"This must be ascertained how the participation of the community can be further enhanced," Bobby said.

The chairman of the Medan City KPU, Agussyah Ramadani Damanik, explained that election readiness was measured in many ways, both from the aspect of implementation, regulation and cooperation of stakeholders.

“Made preparation will give good results. Not only the procedure, but the substance of our democracy is very important, how is the election process that is honest and fair quality born, our leaders are also born who can carry out the mandate of the people, "he said.(©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - PR

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara