MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Postgraduate School
Doctoral Program In Natural Resources And Environmental Management
Doctoral Program
Natural Resources and Environmental Management
Universitas Sumatera Utara

As an advanced level of education from the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Master's Program in Natural Resources and Environmental Management, our study program focuses on providing education in the field of natural resources and environmental management, which is carried out in an integrated manner with an interdisciplinary, multidisciplinary, and transdisciplinary approach.

Supported by the best individuals with extensive experience and high integrity in teaching, our study program is firmly committed to making graduates academics, researchers, and productive professionals in natural resources and environmental management by prioritizing logical, critical, systematic, and creative thinking.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

sps@usu.ac.id

Doctoral Program in Natural Resources and Environmental Management

Accredited Baik Sekali

No. 2419/SK/BAN-PT/Akred/D/IV/2021

Vision of Doctoral Program in Natural Resources and Environmental Management

As a leading doctoral program in western Indonesia, managing natural resources and the environment to realize sustainable development.

Mission of Doctoral Program in Natural Resources and Environmental Management

Environment

Organizing a doctoral program (S3) in natural resource and environmental management in realizing environmentally sound sustainable development.

Quality Improvement

Organizing and spearheading research activities on natural resource management and the environment to be utilized in productive activities and improving the community's quality of life.

Public Service

Organizing and facilitating community service activities in managing natural resources and the environment in realizing environmentally sound sustainable development.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Science

Agriculture

Engineering

Socio-Economic Culture

Law and Public Healt

Contact Us
Doctoral Program in Natural Resources and Environmental Management
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Prof. T. Maas Kampus USU 20155

(+62)-618217346

sps@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara