MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
BPIP Socializes Pancasila Values Through National Music Surgery At USU
BPIP Socializes Pancasila Values Through National Music Surgery at USU
Published At
20 December 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
BPIP Socializes Pancasila Values Through National Music Surgery at USU
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 20 December 2021

The Pancasila Ideology Development Agency (BPIP) held a National Music Review in the context of Disseminating Pancasila Values at the Universitas Sumatera Utara, Tuesday (12/14/2021). This activity is a series of socialization activities carried out by BPIP after previously being held at UI, Unpad, Untirta, IPB and the University of Lampung.

USU PR - The Pancasila Ideology Development Agency (BPIP) held a National Music Review in the context of Disseminating Pancasila Values. This activity is a series of socialization activities carried out by BPIP after previously being held at UI, Unpad, Untirta, IPB and the University of Lampung.

Held in the Hall of the USU Faculty of Pharmacy on Tuesday (12/14/2021), the activity was attended by the Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., Deputy Head of BPIP Prof. Dr. Hariyono, M.Pd, Chairman of Commission II DPR RI Dr. H. Ahmad Doli Kurnia Tandjung, S.Si., MT, Deputy for Inter-Institutional Relations, Socialization, Communication and Networking of BPIP Ir Prakoso, MM, Dean and Deputy Dean of the USU Faculty of Pharmacy, and Head of the Ethnomusicology Study Program, Faculty of Cultural Sciences, USU Dra. Rithaony Hutajulu, MA., as resource persons.

USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin explained that USU is committed to instilling the values ​​of Pancasila. USU has provided the value of Pancasila through the Compulsory Curriculum Subjects (MKWK) given to students at the beginning of learning on campus.

"We have taken two steps to instill Pancasila values ​​in students, namely the implementation of MKWK to students at the beginning of their study period. This MKWK contains material on Religion, Pancasila, Citizenship, and Indonesian Language. Our system will mix students from various disciplines, so they don't just meet friends from the same department, but from different majors," the USU Rector said.

Muryanto Amin said that his party was preparing the Indonesia Strong application. The application contains the cultivation of Pancasila values, multiculturalism, and the prevention of radicalism and terrorism.

Through this application, it is hoped that USU's academic community will be more familiar with the values ​​of Pancasila and be able to put them into practice.

Muryanto Amin emphasized that North Sumatra had known the word tolerance long before Indonesia's independence. This is reflected in the large number of people from various ethnic, racial, and religious backgrounds living side by side in North Sumatra.

“The advantage of North Sumatra is that we are used to living side by side, and that the value of tolerance is already embedded in each of us. Long before the independence, North Sumatra has been inhabited by various local ethnicities, plus descendants from outside such as Arabic, Chinese, and Indian. So it is not an exaggeration to mention North Sumatra as a miniature of Indonesia," he said.

Muryanto Amin also advised students to be wiser in seeing differences. He emphasized that differences are not the cause for disputes, instead it is the strength. With differences, the empty spaces in life can be complimented by one another.

Deputy Head of BPIP Prof. Hariyono explained that music is an identity that can foster unity. He told how the struggle for the independence of the Indonesian people could be united in a single national anthem “Indonesia Raya.”

“During the struggle, Ki Hajar Dewantoro had time to ask a question: when will we have the national anthem? This was captured by WR Supratman by writing and arranging to create the national anthem Indonesia Raya. This shows how music can be a medium for unity," he said.

He emphasized that Pancasila is not a political conception. Far from that he said that Pancasila is a manifesto of extensive knowledge and experience. It is impossible according to him that Pancasila was born without such knowledge and experience. Therefore, the ideology of Pancasila must be instilled as the philosophy of the nation and become the ideology of the nation.

The activity was filled with music performances, including Emmy Tobing singing the song ”Garuda”, Awing singing the song “Bangun Pemudi Pemuda”, Conrad Good Vibration performing the song “Rayuan Pulau Kelapa” and Slag Band performing the song “Dari Sabang Sampai Merauke”, as well as a song by Pay, Rustam and Irang entitled “Indonesia Rumah Kita”, presented by all the supporting artists of the event.

The activity was held in a hybrid seminar manner by inviting 50 participants in person and 500 people online. The Covid-19 health protocol is enforced with discipline. (©ULC)

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara