MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Holds Graduation Period III A.Y. 2024/2025, Rector Highlights AI Revolution Adaptation
USU Holds Graduation Period III A.Y. 2024/2025, Rector Highlights AI Revolution Adaptation
Published At
15 May 2025
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Holds Graduation Period III A.Y. 2024/2025, Rector Highlights AI Revolution Adaptation
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 15 May 2025

“Those who have strengths, which cannot be replaced by machines, such as curiosity, empathy, experience, and perseverance, will have a great chance to succeed,” USU Rector emphasized.

 

Public Relations USU - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) successfully conferred  degrees of 1,898 graduates in the third graduation period for the 2024/2025 Academic Year. The activity, which comes as a form of appreciation for completing this study, was held hybrid at the USU Auditorium and YouTube streaming, on Friday-Saturday (09-10/05/2025).

 

In this period, graduates from the Doctoral, Masters, Bachelor, and Diploma Programs from various faculties were present to hold their new degrees. With this, USU has succeeded in producing as many as 266,934 alumni who are spread across various fields and contribute to society.

 

USU Rector, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., in his speech entitled "Adapting to the AI Revolution: Becoming a Winner in the Digital World of Work", congratulated the graduates who had successfully completed their studies. The Rector said that the degree achieved can provide strength to continue to explore potential and consistently improve themselves. He emphasized that adaptability and innovation are the keys to becoming a winner in the digital world of work.

“The degree gives strength to maintain the spirit of learning, explore your potential, and consistently correct mistakes,” he said.

 

At the same time, the USU Rector invited graduates to continue investing in self-development, such as improving and refining skills (reskilling and upskilling). Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., emphasized that traits such as curiosity, empathy, experience, and perseverance will remain the main factors in achieving success.

“Those who have strengths, which cannot be replaced by machines, such as curiosity, empathy, experience, and perseverance, will have a great chance to succeed,” he emphasized.

 

Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., added that the world of work that graduates will face is not a world that offers stability, but a world full of opportunities for those who are ready to face failure and dare to rise again. He believes that every step, no matter how small, will be an important part in the big journey of the graduates' lives in the future.

“The world of work always has great opportunities for those ready to fall and dare to rise again,” he said.

 

Graduates need to remain relevant in the world of work. The USU Rector emphasized that the only way to stay relevant is to keep learning and remain curious. Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., also said that a flexible and logical mindset would be an advantage in a world that is always transforming. In addition, the ability to build relationships for collaboration, a humble attitude, and resilience in dealing with all situations (resilience), are important qualities that graduates must have.

“The only way to survive is to maintain curiosity, keep learning, and keep being curious,” he said.

 

Graduates are expected to make real contributions to society. Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., said the spirit to continue to grow and develop is the most valuable provision in the midst of challenges on the graduates' journey later. The USU Chancellor also reminded that in the midst of the rapid development of the digital era, it is not speed that determines the direction of life, but the resilience and principles that continue to be maintained as a compass in taking every step.

“You will step into a wider world that awaits real contributions from young people like you,” he said.

 

Farhan Alvandi Lubis, a graduate of the Communication Studies Program of the Faculty of Social and Political Sciences (FISIP) USU, also expressed his views on AI. He thinks AI can be useful if used wisely.

“We must be able to utilize AI well, but not to lose to AI,” he said.

 

Furthermore, Farhan Alvandi Lubis also highlighted the importance of organizational experience during college. According to him, through organizations, students can learn time management, problem-solving skills, and various other skills that are very useful when entering the workforce.

“Through organizations, students will be able to do good time management,” he said.

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara