MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Unilever Collaborates With USU FKG To Hold National Dental Health Month
Unilever Collaborates with USU FKG to Hold National Dental Health Month
Published At
17 November 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Unilever Collaborates with USU FKG to Hold National Dental Health Month
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 17 November 2022

The USU Faculty of Dentistry Dean said that this time there was not only free dental care, but tooth fillings, free tooth extraction, and national dental health month training with a joint tooth brushing program which was attended by representatives of teachers and representatives of parents and students. And this program will be monitored for the next 21 days.

USU Public Relations - Faculty of Dentistry (FKG) Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is holding the 2022 National Dental Health Month in collaboration with Unilever with the theme Recovering Together with Indonesia's Healthy Smiles "Rise Stronger, Free of Cavities". This activity took place in the USU FKG Hall, on Wednesday (11/09/2022).

In her remarks, the Dean of the USU FKG Dr. Essie Octiara, drg, SpKGA said that in this activity, there was not only free dental treatment, but also dental fillings, free tooth extraction, and national dental health month training with a joint toothbrush program attended by representative teachers and representatives of parents and students and this program will be monitored for the next 21 days.

"And thank you to the committee that has prepared this event and this event will be closed on Friday (11/11/2022)," she said.

The USU FKG Dean also said that the theme raised was obtained from Unilever research results in 8 countries which proved that the problem of cavities is the most important problem that occurs in the human mouth, and with this theme will increase awareness of dental and oral health. Especially since the advent of covid-19, there has been a decline in dental health.

"In the conditions of Covid-19, there is a decrease in dental health, adults as much as 5% decrease and young children 11% decrease," she concluded.

On the same occasion, the Director of the USU Oral and Dental Hospital (RSGM), drg. Rahmi Syaflida D, Sp.BM (K) said that there had been a decrease in patients since Covid-19 attacked, this happened because the USU General Hospital had been closed due to a government decree for a lockdown, and when Covid-19 was high, it was very difficult to get Personal Protective Equipment (PPE).

"During Covid, the risk of dentists being exposed to the Covid-19 virus is greater, because dentists have direct contact with the oral cavity and human teeth," she said.

This year, the USU General Hospital has started to open all services such as installing braces, cleaning tartar, dental fillings, tooth extraction and others and of course everything is done according to procedures using PPE. "All tools and equipment are slowly being replenished and slowly opening all services again," she added.

Head of Professional Marketing Personal Care Unilever Indonesia drg. Ratu Mirah Afifah, GCClinDent., MDSc., said that during private practice, since covid there has been a decline in dental health, especially in children because during Covid-19 many children were at home where it was possible to continue eating but not accompanied by brushing your teeth regularly.

"If at home, parents rarely monitor because they think that it's not dirty because they don't leave the house, but they forget about dental and oral health," she said.

And at this time, the patient goes to the dentist because the disease in the oral cavity and teeth is severe, such as swollen gums, teeth are thin, and gums often bleed.

"If it is severe, only then will people be aware of having their teeth checked by the dentist and will get more treatment from the dentist," she mentioned. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Collaboration
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara