MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Hosts Road To 9th IndonesiaNEXT, Supporting Indonesia's Digital Talents
USU Hosts Road to 9th IndonesiaNEXT, Supporting Indonesia's Digital Talents
Published At
14 February 2025
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Hosts Road to 9th IndonesiaNEXT, Supporting Indonesia's Digital Talents
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 14 February 2025

“The IndonesiaNEXT program aligns with USU's vision to produce graduates who are not only intellectually intelligent, but also have qualified digital and soft skills,” Poppy explained.

 

Public Relations USU - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) hosted the Road to 9th IndonesiaNEXT Goes to Campus event themed “Skill to Innovate” organized by Telkomsel with support from the British Embassy Jakarta, UK International Development, UK Indonesia Tech Hub. The event occurred in Prof. Dr. Suhadji Hadibroto Hall, Faculty of Economics and Business (FEB) on Thursday, (13/02/2025).

 

This event is a form of appreciation to Telkomsel for consistently organizing IndonesiaNEXT for nine years. This program provides opportunities for students to develop their potential and increase competitiveness in the digital world.

 

Vice Rector III, Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan S.Si., M.Si., Apt represented USU Rector, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos. M.Si, in his speech emphasized that USU has a strong commitment to producing graduates who are not only intellectually intelligent but also skilled in mastering technology and digital competencies. Collaboration between universities and industry, as realized in IndonesiaNEXT, is expected to produce young people ready to contribute to the nation's progress.

 

“The IndonesiaNEXT program aligns with USU's vision to produce graduates who are not only intellectually intelligent but also have qualified digital and soft skills,” Poppy explained.

 

UK-Indonesia Tech Hub Program Manager of British Embassy Jakarta, Fenna Marliasari, revealed the important role of the digital ecosystem in Indonesia's economic development, especially in facilitating digital talent to compete at the global level.

 

“The role of digital talent is crucial in the fast-growing world of technology, and we at the British Embassy are committed to supporting young Indonesians in expanding access to opportunities in the digital sector,” said Fenna.

 

Fenna Marliasari said that the British Embassy has various programs that support the development of the digital ecosystem in Indonesia. One of these is the UK-Indonesia Tech Hub, which aims to help develop start-ups and digital talents outside Java.

 

“UK-Indonesia Tech Hub is one of the programs from the British government to help develop the digital ecosystem in Indonesia,” said Fenna.

 

General Manager Consumer Business Regional Sumbagut Telkomsel Agung E. Setyobudi stated that since 2016, IndonesiaNEXT has produced more than 6,800 certified digital talents from 86,000 participants. This year, Telkomsel targets producing 1,200 graduates ready to compete in the industrial world. The program provides digital skills certification, builds professional networks, and improves students' work readiness.

 

“Telkomsel's contribution to educational institutions is to increase digital talents,” said Agung.

 

Telkomsel is also committed to supporting local startups and providing space for students who want to develop innovative ideas. With various training and mentoring programs, participants are expected to be able to adapt to rapid technological developments, such as artificial intelligence and digital marketing, and get career opportunities in the technology industry.

News
SDGs
SDGs 8
SDGs 10
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara