MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Adds 7 Permanent Professors
USU Adds 7 Permanent Professors
Published At
16 December 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
USU Adds 7 Permanent Professors
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Monday, 16 December 2024

“These professors are the main assets that will strengthen the education and research ecosystem at the University of North Sumatra,” said Prof. Muryanto.

USU PR - The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held the Inauguration Ceremony of Seven Permanent USU Professors, which took place at the USU Student Center on Friday (06/12/2024).

The seven inaugurated professors are Prof. Dr. Marpongahtun, M.Sc from the Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences; Prof. Dr. Minto Supeno, M.S from the Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences; Prof. Dr. Nurman Achmad, S.Sos., M.Soc. Sc from Faculty of Social and Political Sciences; Prof. Dr. Kiki Nurthjahja, M.Sc from Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences; Prof. Dr. Rahayu Lubis, M.Kes., Ph.D from Faculty of Public Health; Prof. Ir. Etti Sudaryati, M.K.M., Ph.D from Faculty of Public Health; and Prof. Dra. Nurmaini, M.K.M., Ph.D from Faculty of Public Health.

USU Rector, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., began his remarks by expressing his appreciation to the newly appointed professors for their contribution in supporting the progress of the university, especially in the fields of academics, research, and community service.

“These professors are the main assets that will strengthen the education and research ecosystem at the Universitas Sumatera Utara,” said Prof. Muryanto.

In his speech, the USU Rector also explained the various achievements that have been achieved by the university, including an increase in the QS Asia Rankings, which is now in the 329th position, as well as achievements in the Life Sciences and Medicine category, which managed to penetrate the 601st world ranking.

He mentioned that USU has strengthened its position in engineering and science, which is one of its development priorities.

“Professors not only have responsibilities in teaching but also in creating innovative research that is relevant to the needs of society. They are the driving force of change,” said Prof. Muryanto.

In line with the USU Rector's speech, one of the newly inaugurated professors, Prof. Ir. Etti Sudaryati, M.K.M., Ph.D from the Faculty of Public Health, also paid attention to the real contribution of science to society, especially in the field of food security and stunting prevention.

Prof. Etti emphasized that the results of research and community service carried out by academics are not only oriented towards academic achievement but also to the real benefits that can be felt directly by the community.

“I have conducted various research and services to strengthen food security. One of them was that I became part of the stunting panelist team to assess the performance of districts and cities. From this, I received a lot of input from regions that need science-based interventions,” said Prof. Etti.

The university's support for this kind of research shows a strong synergy between academia and society. USU continues to encourage the development of innovative solutions that are relevant to local needs while integrating science with community service.

For information, currently ,USU has 178 active USU professors. With the addition of 7 professors in 2024, in the 2021-2024 period, the additional professors will reach 73 people.

News
Headline
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara