MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Dentistry
Doctoral Program In Dental Science
Doctoral Program
Doctoral Program in Dental Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Doctoral Program in Dental Science is the highest level of study in dentistry in higher education. The program is designed to provide an in-depth understanding of the practice of dentistry as well as a robust scientific foundation in this field. The main objective of the Doctoral program in Dental Science is to produce graduate experts in dentistry who can develop the latest scientific and technological concepts through research and have leadership skills in developing research programs.

The vision of this study program is "To become a center for doctoral education in Dental Science that produces graduates with research excellence in the field of natural resources based on natural materials and globally competitive." Graduates of the USU Doctoral Program in Dental Science are expected to be able to fill the gap between academic research and practical applications in improving the quality of dental health services globally. Students who complete this study program will earn a Doctoral degree (Dr.).

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

doktoralikg@usu.ac.id

Doctoral Program in Dental Science

Accredited Very Good

0477/LAM-PTKes/Akr/Dok/VII/2023

Vision of Doctoral Program in Dental Science

To become a center of education for the Doctoral Program in Dental Science that produces graduates with excellence in research in the field of natural materials-based natural resources and global competitiveness

Mission of Doctoral Program in Dental Science

Education

To conduct doctoral education to produce graduates who are capable of solving various problems in the field of dental and oral health.

Research

a. To develop innovative and excellent research in natural resources based on local natural materials. b. To apply evidence-based research results to meet society's needs in dental and oral health.

Community Service

a. To conduct various community service activities related to improving dental and oral health according to the needs of society. b. To establish cooperation with institutions related to dentistry in fulfilling the latest science and technology at the national and international levels.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Clinical Dentistry

Basic Material Dentistry

Community Dentistry

Contact Us
Doctoral Program in Dental Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jalan Alumni No. 2 Kampus USU, Medan, Sumatera Utara 20155

(061) - 8216131

doktoralikg@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara