MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Finance Bureau: Budget 2022 Supports The Rector KPI Program
USU Finance Bureau: Budget 2022 Supports the Rector KPI Program
Published At
10 November 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Finance Bureau: Budget 2022 Supports the Rector KPI Program
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 10 November 2021

"USU's Finance Bureau must ensure the inclusion of Key Performance Indicator activities (KPI) into the Budget Activity Plan in 2022," said the Head of the USU Finance Bureau.

USU Public Relations - USU Finance Bureau was entrusted with the task of preparing the 2022 budget activity plan, by ensuring the availability of a number of funds to support the financing of a number of work programs related to the Rector's Performance Contract with the Ministry. This was conveyed by the Head of the USU Finance Bureau M. Simba Sembiring SE, M.Si during a routine morning call at the Court of the USU Central Administration Building, Monday (11/01/2021).

"USU's Finance Bureau must ensure the inclusion of Key Performance Indicator Activities (KPI) into the Budget Activity Plan in 2022," said the Head of the USU Finance Bureau.

The Main Performance Indicator activities are, graduates get decent jobs with wages above the regional minimum wage, become entrepreneurs, or continue their studies; students gain off-campus experience through internships, village projects, teaching, research, entrepreneurship, and student exchange; lecturers are active outside the campus by seeking industrial experience or doing activities on other campuses; practitioners teach on campus or recruit lecturers with industry experience; the work of lecturers can be used by the community and get international recognition; study programs in collaboration with world-class partners in the curriculum, internships, and absorption of graduates; collaborative and participatory classes through project-based evaluation or case study methods; and international standard study programs with accreditation or certification.

"The Budget Activity Plan for 2022 which has been prepared by all work units within USU, must target the achievement of the Key Performance Indicators as we have mentioned," said M. Simba.

Not only that, the USU Finance Bureau has also ensured the inclusion of financing for the six USU Rector's Priority Programs for 2021-2026, into the Budget Activity Plan for 2022 and the years to come.

Simba conveyed the six priority programs of the USU Rector, namely reorganizing and strengthening the structure and governance, adapting the tri dharma tasks in an integrative way, structuring infrastructure, digitizing campuses, campus enterprises to strengthen USU's branding, and collaboration that focuses on building community services in order to provide the best solutions to the problems encountered by society.

Simba hopes that all levels can strengthen a better cooperation in carrying out the duties and functions of the USU Finance Bureau.

"On behalf of the University Leadership, I would like to express my gratitude and appreciation to all levels of USU, both educators and USU education staff, for the cooperation that has been well developed so far," he concluded. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara