MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU-Telkom Soon To Realize Campus Digitization
USU-Telkom Soon to Realize Campus Digitization
Published At
02 February 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU-Telkom Soon to Realize Campus Digitization
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 02 February 2022

The USU Rector mentioned the importance of digitizing the campus in line with preparing digital talent from human resources within USU. Ability and expertise in the digital world is believed to be one of the fundamental elements to be able to compete in the world of work market.

USU PR - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) and PT Telkom Indonesia are entering a new phase of cooperation in accelerating the realization of campus digitization. The virtual meeting was held on Friday (1/28/2022). The Rector of USU, Dr. Muryanto Amin S.Sos., M Si., and the vice Rectors were also present.

PT Telkom Indonesia was represented by the Executive Vice President of the Enterprise Service Division, Tengku Muda Nanta and his staffs.

Previously, USU and PT Telkom Indonesia have agreed on cooperation in the field of communication technology and efforts to create campus digitization. The agreement was marked by the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) by USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., with the Digital Business Director of PT Telkom Indonesia, M. Fajrin Rasyid, last Friday (1/21/2022).

The USU Rector appreciated the prompt steps taken by both parties in following up on the signing of the MoU.

"We have to draw up a roadmap and work timeline for this collaboration. We need to do so that this collaboration can run as expected so that it is effective. The units at USU must also be integrated with each other," the USU Rector said.

The Rector of USU said that the current assessment and monitoring carried out by the accreditation and rating agencies were no longer manual and analogue, but digitally. Digital databases are used as assessment materials and universities must transform from analog to digital.

“The current basis for assessment and academic services must be digital. Rating agencies are currently conducting assessments on a digital basis owned by universities. Campus digitization is absolute so that we can follow the established indicators, especially in terms of digital databases," he explained.

Muryanto Amin mentioned the importance of digitizing the campus in line with preparing digital talent from human resources within USU. Ability and expertise in the digital world is believed to be one of the fundamental elements to be able to compete in the world of work market.

The Rector hopes that the presence of PT Telkom Indonesia in this collaboration will encourage capacity building for the academic community. In addition to creating quality digital talent, it is hoped that this collaboration can encourage the existence of an informative page owned by USU.

“Telkom is a state-owned company that cares about the development of higher education. With this collaboration, I hope that PT Telkom can become USU partner in creating qualified digital talent. In addition, this assistance is also expected to create an informative USU website," he said.

Executive Vice President of the Enterprise Service Division, Tengku Muda Nanta, said that his company was ready to support USU's efforts. PT Telkom Indonesia is committed to creating campus digitization as soon as possible at USU. He added that his company had prepared a task force for that.

“Telkom is ready to support what the USU Rector has said. We are here to be partners in campus digitization efforts. We have also prepared our resources to provide assistance to friends from USU," Nanta said. (©ULC)

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Humas - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara