MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Medicine
Specialist-1 Program In Psychiatry
Spesialist-1 Program
Psychiatry
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Specialist Program in Psychiatry of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is a study program that teaches the skills to diagnose and treat various mental health disorders, including anxiety disorders, depression, schizophrenia, and more. Established in 1980 with expert and nationally certified teaching staff, students have the opportunity to gain interactive and effective hands-on and problem-based learning experiences.

This study program is deeply committed to training students to become future professional psychiatrists who are skilled, qualified, and can overcome the mental health problems of the Indonesian people from a scientific and humanitarian perspective so as to help the lives of Indonesian people be physically and mentally healthy. Students who have completed this study program will hold the Psychiatry Specialist (Sp.K.J.) degree.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

psikiatrifkusu@yahoo.com

Specialist-1 Program in Psychiatry

Accredited Excellent

No. 0959/LAM-PTKes/Akr/Spe/XI/2022

Vision of Specialist-1 Program in Psychiatry

To become a center of excellence in Psychiatry education that can compete globally by 2024.

Mission of Specialist-1 Program in Psychiatry

Education

Organizing a quality psychiatry education program so that graduates can compete at a global level.

Research

Conducting research for the advancement of science and technology with professionalism and honesty.

Community Service

Organizing research-based community service.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Psychiatry

Biological Psychiatry

Community Psychiatry

Psychogeriatrics

Consultation Liaison Psychiatry

Addiction Psychiatry

Psychometrics

Psychotherapy

Reproductive Psychiatry

Forensic Psychiatry

Contact Us
Specialist-1 Program in Psychiatry
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Dr. Mansyur No. 66, Merdeka, Kec. Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20154

(061) - 8218928

psikiatrifkusu@yahoo.com

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara