MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Computer Science And Information Technology
Doctoral Program In Computer Science
Doctoral Program
Computer Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Doctoral Program in Computer Science of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is the highest level of computer science education at USU. This program serves as an advanced education for graduates of the postgraduate program to deepen their scientific research skills independently to make significant contributions in the field of information technology.

Supported by professional and internationally reputable industry experts, we are committed to guiding students to become computer and information technology experts and professionals in developing concepts of science, technology, and research at the national or international level. Graduates of this program are expected to be able to carry out their responsibilities and profession as qualified, knowledgeable, and experienced IT experts so that they can contribute to advancing technological development in Indonesia. They have career opportunities at the highest level in various IT fields, including as computer science researchers, artificial intelligence designers and consultants, data scientists, system managers, and information technology professionals.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

s3ilkom@usu.ac.id

Doctoral Program in Computer Science

Accredited Very Good

No. 096/SK/LAM-INFOKOM/Ak/D/XII/2022

Vision of Doctoral Program in Computer Science

To become a leading study program in the field of Computer Science research to bridge the world of education with industry in a global order in 2020.

Mission of Doctoral Program in Computer Science

Expertise and Research

To organize areas of expertise and research in Computer Science in the field of computing, including soft computing, information retrieval, intelligent systems, mathematical modeling, and advanced networking.

Research-Based

To organize a research-based Doctoral Study Program in the field of Computer Science.

Innovative Science and Technology

To develop innovative science and technology that can contribute to a better quality of life in society in the frame of Tropical Science and Medicine, Agroindustry, Local Wisdom, Energy [sustainable], Natural Resources [biodiversity, forest, marine, mine, tourism], Technology [appropriate] and Arts [ethnic] (TALENTA) USU.

Computer Science and ICT Development

To organize and develop methodologies for the development of Computer Science and Information and Communication Technology (ICT) so they are able to become problem solvers within the scope of their expertise.

Research and Community Service

To organize research and community service activities related to scientific principles in thinking, behaving, and acting as scientists in the field of Computer Science who can contribute to a better quality of life in society while upholding ethics and morals.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Soft computing

Information Retrieval

Intelligent System

Mathematical Modelling

Advanced Networking

Contact Us
Doctoral Program in Computer Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Gedung B, Fakultas Ilmu Komputer dan Teknologi Informasi, Jalan Universitas No. 9A Kampus USU Padang Bulan, Medan, Sumatera Utara - 20155

061-8222129

s3ilkom@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara