MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
University Activity
USU Professor Gives Silage Technology Training To Farmers
USU Professor Gives Silage Technology Training to Farmers
Published At
01 August 2022
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
USU Professor Gives Silage Technology Training to Farmers
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Monday, 01 August 2022

USU Professors carry out community service activities with the Professor Mengabdi scheme at the Darussalam Modern Islamic Boarding School, which is located in Dusun V, Pasar 8, Kwala Air Hitam Village, Kecamatan Selesai, Langkat Regency. This activity was carried out by Prof. Dr. Ir. Hasnudi, M.S., and a team consisting of Peni Patriani, S.Pt., M.P., Tati Vidiana Sari, S.Pt., M.P. and Dr. Ade Trisna, S.Pt., M.M. It also involved 6 (six) students of the 2019 Faculty of Agriculture USU Animal Science Study Program.

The service, which was juxtaposed with the USU MBKM program, was titled “Silage Technology Based on Agricultural Waste as Goat Feed in the District of Finish, Langkat Regency.”

In his speech, Professor Hasnudi, the team leader, stated that silage technology is very useful for farmers in storing their green feed. This is done so that later, it can be used to anticipate the dry season, when forage is difficult to obtain, or store forage feed ingredients to be more efficient in feeding management for livestock.

The head of Pondok Pesantren Modern Darussalam, Didik Gunawan, M.A., appreciated the arrival of the USU Professors Mengabdi Team coordinated by Prof. Hasnudi. He is very happy because the students learn about silage technology and receive grants through choppers (grass-chopping machines). Some equipment to make silage in the form of large barrels and buckets. Similar opinions were also conveyed by the santri breeders for giving them the knowledge of silage technology. “This is very useful for us, beginner farmers. Where these skills can be applied in the present and future,” said one of the student breeders.

In this service, the students were assigned to teach the santri farmers to make silage, starting from the chopper process (chopping the forage to make it smooth) to mixing it with molasses (molasses sugar), EM4, and water, then put in a large plastic bag and compacted, which was then tied tightly so that it was airtight (without air) to be stored for 14 days. If the silage is successful, it is characterized by the greenery smelling like tapai. The training was closed with lunch and a group photo between the Professor Mengabdi service team with the student breeders and the leadership of Pondok Pesantren Modern Darussalam.

The activity continued with further assistance and coaching until the student breeders could actually make silage properly. Students are also assigned to assist student breeders, so they are accustomed to working in the village according to their fields. (RJ)

University Activity
Community Service Activity
Find More Activity
University Activity
USU Lecturer Concern on the Extinction of Orangutan Tapanuli
University Activity
USU professor turns shrimp shell waste into face serum
University Activity
USU Research Collaboration Lowers Stunting Rate in Sergai

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara