MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Field Assessment Of The D4 Instrumentation Engineering Technology Program
Field Assessment of the D4 Instrumentation Engineering Technology Program
Published At
27 May 2024
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Field Assessment of the D4 Instrumentation Engineering Technology Program
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 27 May 2024

"We hope the assessors will provide input and recommendations to USU's Vocational Studies to enhance the quality of the Applied Bachelor of Instrumentation Engineering Technology," added Vice Rector I of USU.

USU PR— The Bachelor of Applied Science in Instrumentation Engineering Technology Program at the Faculty of Vocational Studies, Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), conducted a field assessment inviting assessors from the Independent Accreditation Agency for Engineering (LAM-Teknik), namely Dr. Ir. Era Purwanto, M.Eng. from the State Polytechnic of Electronics Surabaya and Suharyadi Pancono from the State Polytechnic of Manufacturing Bandung. The assessment took place at the Vocational Studies Faculty Hall on Thursday (May 5, 2024).

The transformation of USU's Applied Bachelor program shows how Vice Rector I of USU, Dr. Edy Ikhsan SH., MA, emphasizes the need for experts in future instrumentation engineering technology. The space for work is becoming more open due to the emergence of the digital era, which is hard to avoid.

Therefore, the field assessment aims to ensure the process in the context of learning how to prepare infrastructure and curriculum, considering that vocational education has a different curriculum from undergraduate programs as it focuses on practice and vocational education. This is intended so USU's vocational graduates can compete in the job market. The key lies in the curriculum and how much practitioners can provide knowledge transformation in the context of capacity development for vocational students.

USU graduates are expected to compete because this is related to the Main Performance Indicators (IKU) and Tracer Study, as stated by Dr. Edy Ikhsan SH., MA. The pioneering effort to develop the D4 program in vocational education is one strategy to pave the way for the younger generation to quickly secure jobs, especially in industrial development.

"We hope the assessors will provide input and recommendations to USU's Vocational Studies to enhance the quality of the Applied Bachelor of Instrumentation Engineering Technology," added Vice Rector I of USU.

Prof. Dr. Isfenti Sadalia SE., ME, Dean of the Faculty of Vocational Studies, hopes that this visitation will help the D4 program's achievements meet industry needs and be competitive in the job market. This year, preparation for the development of instrumentation laboratories is also being accelerated beyond basic and integrated laboratories.

"Basic facilities such as our basic laboratories are still shared with external faculties; instrumentation labs are also in the development process," said the Dean of the Faculty of Vocational Studies at USU.

The accreditation assessment still relies on the existing IKU. In addition, Dr. Ir. Era Purwanto, M.Eng., as an assessor, also emphasized the importance of assessing the continuity of the curriculum in line with industrial instrumentation.

Author: bambang riyanto - staf humas

Interviewee: Edy Ikhsan SH., MA - Wakil Rektor I USU

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Staf Humas

News
SDGs 4
SDGs
SDGs 9
Management
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara