MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
The Rector Appoints Structural Officers
The Rector Appoints Structural Officers
Published At
12 January 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
The Rector Appoints Structural Officers
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 12 January 2023

Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), inaugurated a number of Echelon II, III, and IV Structural Officials at the USU Faculty of Economics and Business Hall on Thursday, January 5, 2023

USU Public Relations - Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), inaugurated a number of Echelon II, III, and IV Structural Officials at the USU Faculty of Economics and Business Hall on Thursday, January 5, 2023.

The USU President praised the newly appointed authorities in his remarks. The appointment and placement of qualified USU personnel will improve the quality and service of USU in supporting the educational process.

"With the appointment and placement of human resources that we expect will be qualified and suited to carry out all existing tasks in the future, we are certain that all university leadership work programs will operate effectively and on time.

"With the appointment and placement of human resources that we expect will be qualified and suited to carry out all existing tasks in the future, we are certain that all university leadership work programs will operate effectively and on time. Improving the quality of university services in numerous areas can also contribute to the improvement of the educational process," said the Rector of USU

Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si expects that these officials will bring new energy and passion to the strength of USU in order to achieve targets or significant goals that still need to be met so that USU may instantly move to an international-level university.

"I hope that the inauguration of new authorities at the start of this new year will be able to offer new energy and enthusiasm that will add to the strength of the University of North Sumatra in fulfilling all of its significant ambitions and goals," continued the USU Rector.

Imam Bagus Sumantri, S.Farm., M.Si, Secretary of the Directorate of Law and Organization, emphasized that the essential thing following this inauguration is deciding on a regulation that is beneficial to the nation. In addition to identifying a dynamic organization that can anticipate the needs of the sectoral performance objectives to be met.

"Work programs may be one of the most recent innovations and programs that will be developed in management this time to achieve the university's aims. How to break a dynamic organization is how the organization can see or pay attention to the needs of sectoral performance targets, "explained the Secretary of the Directorate of Law and Organization.

In the meantime, Secretary of the Directorate of Internationalization and Global Partnerships Arif Nuryawan S.Hut, M.Si., Ph.D., believes that the improvement of infrastructure with the support of academic and industrial partners is necessary for the immediate realization of campus internationalization.

"Internally, we are currently internationalizing to support it. Then, without a doubt, they span infrastructure facilities and support with other partners, be they other academics, industry representatives, or others. We must manifest ourselves locally, regionally, and internationally, "said the Secretary of the Directorate of Internationalization and Global Partnerships.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: - - Humas

News
Management
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara