MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Ranked 12th Best Campus In Indonesia
USU Ranked 12th Best Campus in Indonesia
Published At
01 March 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Ranked 12th Best Campus in Indonesia
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 01 March 2023

According to the Webometrics ranking, Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is ranked the 12th best campus in Indonesia. This ranking increased significantly from the previous position, where USU was ranked 29th.

USU Rector Dr Muryanto Amin, S.Sos, M.Si, explained that the January 2023 version of USU Webometrics nationally rose 17 ranks. Whereas we rank 1,696 in the world, or a significant increase of 1,191.

"USU is ranked 12th in the national rankings, and 1,696th in the world rankings, compared to the previous (year) when USU used to be ranked 2,887th in the world rankings," explained the rector who confirmed the increase in USU's rankings in the Webometrics rankings on Thursday (02/02/2023).

The Rector explained that the rise in USU's ranking indicates that USU's internal potential is enormous to fulfil the assessment indicators of international institutions such as Webometrics.

"What we have to do is focus and consistently work on the programs that have been planned," he said.

Director of USU's Directorate of International and Global Partnerships, Prof. Dr. Eng. Himsar Ambarita, S.T., M.T., explained that the international ranking of Webometrics is indeed a concern of the USU Rector to be improved.

"We have a team that conducts an evaluation every two weeks on the Webometrics ranking requirements, and the Rector always provides direction and guidance," said Prof Himsar.

He explained that the Webometrics ranking uses three indicators in its assessment: visibility, transparency or openness, and excellence or scholar.

"Of the three indicators, we admit that the weakest is our visibility or web impact, even though this assessment has a significant value of 50 percent. This happened because our website was in the process of improvement," he said.

Prof Himsar emphasised that USU's rise to 12th place indicates that USU is currently on the right track and will continue to move in a better direction.

"To be honest, we are targeting the top five. Given what we currently have, we believe we can achieve that. But of course, this is a gradual process, in line with other USU internationalisation programmes," he said.

Webometrics alone is a site that ranks universities around the world, which was started by the Cybermetrics Lab. This research group is still part of the Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Científicas, the most extensive research institute in Spain.

Quoting the Webometrics website, there are 3,381 public and private campuses in Indonesia that are included in the 2023 Webometrics ranking.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Achievement
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara