MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Postgraduate School
Master's Program In Regional And Rural Development Planning
Master Program
Regional and Rural Development Planning
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Established in 1992, the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Master's Program in Regional and Rural Development Planning focuses on multidisciplinary education based on an integrated system approach.

Supported by outstanding lecturers with national teaching certificates, our students are guided to master, analyze, and solve regional development planning problems, especially in village areas. Graduates of the USU Master's Program in Regional and Rural Development Planning are expected to become educators and experts who can become the core of regional development problem solvers spread across various agencies in Indonesia, both government and private.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

sirohasyim@gmail.com

Master's Program in Regional and Rural Development Planning

Accredited Excellent

No. 3839/SK/BAN-PT/Ak.Ppj/M/IV/2024

Vision of Master's Program in Regional and Rural Development Planning

Becoming an Excellent, Professional, and Leading Regional and Rural Development Planning (MPWD) Study Program with the Highest National Accreditation and Towards International Recognition

Mission of Master's Program in Regional and Rural Development Planning

Education

Organize superior, professional, and leading education and teaching with the Highest National Accreditation and Towards International Recognition in Regional and Rural Development Planning.

Research

Conduct excellent, professional, and leading research with the highest national accreditation and towards international recognition in regional and rural development planning.

Community Service

Carry out superior, professional, and leading public service with the Highest National Accreditation and Towards International Recognition in Regional and Rural Development Planning.

Collaboration

Conduct harmonious collaboration with various parties in Regional and Rural Development Planning.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Research

Policies

Profesional Regional Planning

Contact Us
Master's Program in Regional and Rural Development Planning
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Prof. T. Maas Kampus USU 20155

(+62)-618218730, (+62)-8218721

sirohasyim@gmail.com

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara