MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Rector Inaugurates Structural Echelon III-IV, Rotation And Mutation For Refreshment
USU Rector Inaugurates Structural Echelon III-IV, Rotation and Mutation for Refreshment
Published At
30 September 2021
Published By
Threesna Sharfina
USU Rector Inaugurates Structural Echelon III-IV, Rotation and Mutation for Refreshment
 

Published by

Threesna Sharfina

Published at

Thursday, 30 September 2021

The USU Rector said that this inauguration was a form of rotation and mutation to refresh employees with a new and different work atmosphere. The Rector believes all employees commit to performing their duties and positions better.

The Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara, Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., inaugurated Echelon III and IV Structural Officials within the Universitas Sumatera Utara, Wednesday (29/9/2021) at the USU Central Administration Bureau Building.

The USU Rector said that this inauguration was a form of rotation and mutation to refresh employees with a new and different work atmosphere. The Rector believes that all employees commit to carry out their duties and positions better.

"Sometimes the demands of work require a fast rhythm and adjustment so that every job has consequences that can determine whether we move forward, walk in place or even go backward," said the USU Rector.

The Rector emphasized that the work carried out by Echelon III and IV Structural Officials is at the middle management level. This level determines the wishes of superiors and the capabilities of subordinates so that they can then take tactical and detailed steps in implementing the programs.

"This is the importance of middle-level management, which determines the success or failure of a program. These officials must be able to combine what the leader wants and know the ability of subordinates who will work on it," said the rector.

In addition, the rector advised that the inaugurated officials must understand the performance targets in their fields and carefully plan and implement everything.

"So the officials must know the performance target in that field. Read the document well, then translate the technical things and what must be done. Leaders will not be able to get results if you do not understand what the target is," added the rector.

The Rector also gave officials tricks to advance as professional ASNs, one of which is to always work with others. "Walk side by side with your own friends so that you can argue and discuss with each other to carry out what we do," he said.

On the occasion, the rector also congratulated the inaugurated officials.

"Without your contribution, this university will not be able to progress. Contribute our thoughts and energy to the place where we work, this institution of our hope. Good work, good work, for the progress of USU," said the rector.

News
SDGs
SDGs 8
SDGs 16
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara