MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Supports The Implementation Of The 2022 G-20 Presidency
USU Supports the Implementation of the 2022 G-20 Presidency
Published At
27 May 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Supports the Implementation of the 2022 G-20 Presidency
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 27 May 2022

"This group of countries contributes to 85% of world GDP, 75% of world trade and 80% of global investment, and covers two-thirds of the world's population," said Dr. Edy Ikhsan.

PR USU – Vice-Rector 1Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Dr. Edy Ikhsan, SH, MA, attended the Socialization of the G-20 Indonesia 2022 Presidency Implementation as a form of support. The event, which the Coordinating Ministry for Economic Affairs initiated, took place at the JW Hotel, Marriot Medan on Friday, (27/05/2022).

The G20 is a global economic forum that was formed in response to the economic crisis in 1997/1998. This forum has 19 members as the main drivers of the world economy, including Indonesia. It is in accordance with what was conveyed by the Vice-Rector 1r I Dr. Edy Ikhsan in his speech at the event, which was packaged with the title "G20 Campus Outreach: Fostering Global-Minded Indonesia".

"This group of countries contributes to 85% of world GDP, 75% of world trade and 80% of global investment, and covers two-thirds of the world's population," said Dr. Edy Ikhsan.

Edy Ikhsan said that this socialization activity was an opportunity for students to understand matters related to the G-20 and Indonesia's position in the 2022 presidency at the High-Level Conference (KTT) which will take place in Bali in November.

He also added that there are many aspects, both economic and non-economic, that students need to understand.

“It is not only related to the financial state in the context of the world's economic recovery, but also to non-economic aspects that are actually very important. For example, gender equality, corruption, climate change, and so on,” he said.

VR I also mentioned that the campus has a role to play in the success of this event because it has human resources such as experts, lecturers, and students.

"This is a benchmark for studies of everything discussed at the summit later to be evaluated, analyzed, and become part of being given input to the government in the best steps, especially after Covid-19," he said.

He hopes that by holding this event, it could encourage the students' knowledge. Besides, it can be an opportunity for them to make some scientific papers to add to the role of students in understanding Indonesia's position at the global level, especially on economic aspects and other crucial issues.

“At least in real terms, firstly, their knowledge increases. Secondly, this is an opportunity for them to write it down in their scientific works, in theses, which can then increase their role in understanding Indonesia's position at the global level, especially in the context of the economy and crucial issues. others," he said.

For information, this year is the first time for Indonesia to become the G-20 Presidency since this forum was formed in 1999.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Ir - H

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara