MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Hosts Public Lecture On Public Information Disclosure
USU Hosts Public Lecture on Public Information Disclosure
Published At
16 December 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
USU Hosts Public Lecture on Public Information Disclosure
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Monday, 16 December 2024

“Information is a strategic asset in this digital era. When people have easy and accurate access to public information, they can make better decisions, both for personal and socio-economic interests,” said Prof. Fidel.

USU PR - The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) in collaboration with the Central Information Commission of the Republic of Indonesia held a public lecture entitled “Public Information Disclosure and the Right to Know for Students” at the Prof. Dr. Suhadji Hadibroto Hall, Faculty of Economics and Business (FEB) USU. On Monday (02/12/2024).

The event was attended by the Commissioner of the Central Information Commission of the Republic of Indonesia, Rospita Vici Paulyn, who was also the main speaker. In his remarks, Prof. Dr. dr. Muhammad Fidel Ganis Siregar, M.Ked(OG), Sp.OG(K)-Fer., Secretary of USU, expressed his appreciation for this activity as an educational effort for students about the importance of the right of access to public information.

“Information is a strategic asset in this digital era. When people have easy and accurate access to public information, they can make better decisions, both for personal and socio-economic interests,” said Prof. Fidel.

The USU Secretary emphasized that public information is a strategic asset that allows people, especially students, to make better decisions in various aspects of life. He also encouraged students to not only be recipients of information, but also play an active role as agents of change through constructive criticism and useful solutions.

In addition, Rospita Vici Paulyn added that students have an important role as an extension of the Information Commission to raise public awareness of their rights to public information. According to her, information disclosure in the digital era should be used to criticize public policies that have a broad impact, such as the increase in tuition fees, while still providing constructive suggestions.

“Students are agents of change who are expected to be an extension of the Information Commission to convey to the public that they have the right to know,” he said.

Head of USU's Office of Public Relations, Promotion and Protocol, Amalia Meutia, M.Psi, Psychologist emphasized that the event aimed to raise awareness of the academic community on the importance of public information disclosure. She also explained that official channels such as PPID (Information Management and Documentation Officer) have been provided to facilitate access to information needed by students.

“Through this seminar, students are expected to become agents of information disclosure at USU, using official channels such as PPID (Information and Documentation Management Officer), to obtain the information needed,” he added.

The event also underlined the importance of responsibility in utilizing information disclosure. Students are expected not only to act as recipients of information, but also to speak out in the public sphere and provide solutions to existing problems.

News
SDGs
SDGs 9
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara