MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Faculty Public Relations Workshop: Website Quality Must Be Improved
Faculty Public Relations Workshop: Website Quality Must be Improved
Published At
07 April 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Faculty Public Relations Workshop: Website Quality Must be Improved
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 07 April 2022

"In the future, the knowledge they gain can improve the skills and insight of the public relations faculty and satker, to improve skills and insight in managing information on the website in their respective units," he said.

USU PR - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held a Faculty Public Relations Workshop entitled "Journalism in Website Management" as an effort to improve the quality of website management for each faculty and work unit.

This activity was held at the USU Central Administration Bureau on Tuesday (3/22/2022) by inviting practitioners who are the Chief Editor of GoSumut.com Drs. Nurhalim Tanjung, M.Ikom with moderator Renny Julia Harahap.

University Secretary Prof. Dr. dr. M. Fidel Ganis Siregar, M.Ked (OG), SpOG(K) said, through this socialization, website managers in the public relations faculty and work units can increase knowledge and insight by doing direct practice with practitioners.

 "In the future, the knowledge they gain can improve the skills and insight of the public relations faculty and satker, to improve skills and insight in managing information on the website in their respective units," he said.

Prof. Fidel really hopes that the appearance of websites in faculties and work units will be more attractive with complete information to be read by the USU academic community and the wider community.

According to the speaker Drs. Nurhalim Tanjung, M.Ikom, increasing the capacity for managing this website is highly crucial in the midst of the community's need for fast information and news. Websites managed by faculties and work units are expected to be more dynamic and more active in presenting news and information needed by readers.

 "I hope this can develop, those who take part in the training have received tips or techniques in writing or delivering information and news," he said.

He added that the role of website journalism in academia is very important because in addition to improving the branding of the faculty and USU, it can also become a purifier in the midst of the many hoax news circulating on the internet.

 “Continue to improve, if the techniques are not trained and honed they will be lost. The more you practice, the better your writing will be, if the information is good, the community will need it,” he concluded. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara