MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Rector's Working Visit To FKG
USU Rector's Working Visit to FKG
Published At
24 January 2025
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Rector's Working Visit to FKG
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 24 January 2025

“USU is committed to encouraging these strategic steps to realize the vision as an educational institution that excels and has global competitiveness,” said Prof. Muryanto.

 

Public Relations USU—To continue his annual working visit agenda, the Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., visited the Faculty of Dentistry (FKG) on Thursday (23/01/2025). The activity held in Nazir Alwi Hall conveyed the university's strategic policies and evaluated the faculty's performance.

 

On this occasion, Prof. Muryanto emphasized the importance of optimizing the Tridarma of Higher Education as the main priority in 2025. Some of the strategic focuses include improving the quality of human resources, strengthening research, and developing innovations based on industrial needs. The university also continues to expand the reach of internationalization programs, such as organizing international classes, joint degree programs, and student exchange programs.

 

“USU is committed to encouraging these strategic steps to realize the vision as an educational institution that excels and has global competitiveness,” said Prof. Muryanto.

 

In a dialogue with the Rector, Dean of the Faculty of Dentistry, Dr. drg. Essie Octiara, Sp. KGA, Subsp. PKOA(K) reported that most key performance indicators (KPIs) were achieved well. However, two KPIs related to student achievement and international accreditation are still challenges that need to be resolved.

 

“Other targets have been achieved, some of which even exceeded expectations. However, we continue to prepare concrete steps to meet the remaining KPI targets, especially international accreditation,” explained Dr. Essie.

 

As a follow-up to this working visit, the faculty has developed a strategic plan (Renstra) for 2025. This strategy will be translated to the study program level, with each study program dividing tasks among academic staff to support more measurable achievements.

 

In addition, to increase lecturers' contributions, FKG has implemented a minimum scientific publication target of one article per lecturer per year, which has now been increased to two articles. Regular evaluations are conducted every three months to ensure significant progress.

 

“Alhamdulillah, our publications increased from 30 to 56 articles last year. This shows that the consistent evaluation approach is paying off,” added Dr. Essie.

 

This working visit is also considered important as a medium of direct communication between university leaders and faculties.

 

“With the direct presence of the Rector, the direction given is clearer and able to encourage motivation down to the study program level. This is a very good tradition to strengthen synergy in achieving the university's vision,” concluded Dr. Essie.

 

With this synergy, the Faculty is optimistic that it can achieve the international accreditation target and continue to improve academic quality and innovation.

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara