MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Forestry
Undergraduate Program In Forestry
Undergraduate Program
Forestry
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Undergraduate Program in Forestry at Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) has been established since 1999 and is recognized as one of the best forestry study programs in Indonesia, especially on the island of Sumatra. With four main study interests, namely Forest Management, Silviculture, Forest Product Technology, and Forest Resource Conservation, graduates of this program are expected to have the ability to develop science, technology, and art in the management, development, utilization, and preservation of tropical rainforest functions and their ecosystems, especially in the Sumatra region.

With the vast forests in Indonesia, career prospects for graduates of the forestry program are vast and guaranteed. They can work as environmental conservation technicians, geographic information system (GIS) analysts, forest inventory personnel, and various other roles that contribute to the preservation and management of forests and their ecosystems.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

fhut@usu.ac.id

Accreditation of the Undergraduate Program in Forestry in 2022

Accredited Very Good

No. 10185/SK/BAN-PT/Ak/M/XII/2022

Vision of Undergraduate Program in Forestry

To become a competitive Forestry Study Program in the development of science, technology, and arts in the management, development, utilization, and conservation of tropical rainforest functions in Sumatra and its ecosystems at the international level.

Mission of Undergraduate Program in Forestry

Academic Atmosphere

Creating a conducive academic atmosphere to enhance creativity and innovation in the utilization, development, and management of Sumatra's tropical rainforest resources and ecosystems.

Education

Providing high-quality education to produce professional and highly competitive graduates in the management, development, and utilization of Sumatra's tropical rainforest resources and ecosystems.

Research

Conducting research that generates new theories and findings to anticipate and solve problems related to the management, development, and utilization of Sumatra's tropical rainforest resources and ecosystems.

Research Center

Establishing research centers to produce concepts as references and guidelines for policy formulation in the development, management, and utilization of Sumatra's tropical rainforest resources and ecosystems on national and international scales.

Community Service

Implementing community service by involving the community in applying science and technology for the management, development, and utilization of Sumatra's tropical rainforest resources and ecosystems.

Partnership

Building partnerships and networks with institutions and organizations related to the management of tropical rainforests and their ecosystems at the national and international levels.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Forest Management

Silviculture

Forest Products Technology

Forest Resource Conservation

Contact Us
Undergraduate Program in Forestry
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Kampus 2 USU Bekala, Simalingkar A, Pancur Batu, Deli Serdang, Sumatera Utara 20353 Indonesia

(061)-8220605

fhut@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara