MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Scientific Oration Of The 2nd Anniversary Of USU Faculty Of Vocational Studies
Scientific Oration of the 2nd Anniversary of USU Faculty of Vocational Studies
Published At
26 November 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
Scientific Oration of the 2nd Anniversary of USU Faculty of Vocational Studies
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Tuesday, 26 November 2024

“Through this year's anniversary theme, we want to emphasize the importance of mastering soft skills through project-based learning methods and teaching factories,” said Prof. Isfenti.

USU PR - The Faculty of Vocational Studies of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (FV USU) held a Scientific Oration as part of a series of 2nd Anniversary celebrations which took place at the FV USU Hall on Monday-Tuesday, (18-19/11/2024).

In his remarks, the Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., congratulated the Dean and the entire academic community of the Faculty of Vocational Studies. He said that the age of two is still very young but full of potential to grow under the leadership of the Dean, Prof. Dr. Isfenti Sadalia, S.E., M.E., and her staff.

The Rector also appreciated the achievements of FV USU and emphasized the important role of vocational education in equipping the younger generation with the skills needed by the world of work. With the theme “Empowering Skills, Building Futures”. FV USU is committed to producing graduates who are not only competent, but also adaptive to changing times.

The Rector also highlighted the strategic position of the Faculty of Vocational Studies, which now has 14 Diploma study programs and 7 Applied Undergraduate study programs. With a focus on skill-based curriculum development, teaching factory, and digital competence, the faculty is expected to be a driving force in producing competent and adaptive graduates for the Industrial Revolution 4.0 and Society 5.0 era.

In addition, the Rector also appreciated the achievements of the Faculty of Vocational Studies which include the achievements of lecturers and students, improving the quality of education, innovation, and cooperation with industry. He emphasized the importance of innovation and collaboration so that vocational graduates can become job creators and contribute to skills-based economic growth.

“Vocational education has an important role in equipping the younger generation with the skills needed by the world of work,” said the Rector.

The Dean of the Faculty of Vocational Studies, Prof. Dr. Isfenti Sadalia, S.E., M.E., expressed her hope through this year's anniversary theme. She emphasized the importance of mastering soft skills through project-based learning and teaching factory methods, such as investment gallery facilities, mini tax office, mini banking, and statistics laboratory. These facilities are expected to improve students' skills and support them in obtaining competency certifications that are relevant to the world of work.

“Through this year's anniversary theme, we want to emphasize the importance of mastering soft skills through project-based learning and teaching factory methods,” said Prof. Isfenti.

Chairman of the Anniversary Committee, Fivi Rahmatus Sofiyah, S.E., M.Si., explained that the series of anniversary celebrations had started since July 23, 2024. Various activities were held, including competitions, bazaars, and job fairs. The peak of the event was filled with the announcement of winners of competitions such as Mobile Legends, cooking competitions, webinars, expos, and medical tests.

“The series of anniversary celebrations have started since July 23, 2024, with various activities, including competitions, bazaars, and job fairs,” explained Fivi.

Through this celebration, the USU Faculty of Vocational Studies is expected to be more proactive in establishing cooperation with industry and government, maximizing existing potential, and improving the quality of graduates. Faculty of Vocational Studies USU is also expected to be a problem solver in society and contribute to the advancement of higher education in Indonesia.

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara