MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Engineer Inauguration, USU Rector Encourages Contribution To National Development
Engineer Inauguration, USU Rector Encourages Contribution to National Development
Published At
04 March 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Engineer Inauguration, USU Rector Encourages Contribution to National Development
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 04 March 2022

"The infrastructure development that is being intensively carried out by the Government, as well as private work that requires the services and expertise of you, has a high level of work risk and opens up opportunities for inconsistencies between results and what has been planned and targeted previously," said the USU Rector.

MEDAN - USU PUBLIC RELATIONS: Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held the Inauguration of the Seventh Batch of Engineers from the Professional Engineering Education Study Program (PS-PPI) of the USU Faculty of Engineering, which was conducted online on Wednesday (2/3/2022). This inauguration was held for the seventh batch of students.

USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., in his speech encouraged the newly inaugurated engineers to make maximum contributions to national development. The expertise of engineers is needed considering that Indonesia is currently intensively developing infrastructure.

"The infrastructure development that is being intensively carried out by the Government, as well as private work that requires the services and expertise of you, has a high level of work risk and opens up opportunities for inconsistencies between results and what has been planned and targeted previously," said the USU Rector.

He mentioned that this inauguration increases the existence and public trust in USU, especially in the Engineering Education Study Program. In the future, it is expected that engineering graduates can compete and demonstrate the quality of their knowledge.

"Through the inauguration carried out today, I think the steps of the USU Professional Engineering Education Study Program in realizing its desire to become an excellent and globally competitive Engineering Study Program in terms of the quality of scientific knowledge and engineering professional skills, as stated in its vision, will be even more real," he said.

In connection with this, he hopes that the graduates can maintain the good name of the alma mater and work wholeheartedly. As an engineer, even small mistakes must be minimized, considering that the engineering profession has high risks.

"Even the slightest mistake will have an impact on your professional and personal reputation, as well as the reputation of the institution where that academic degree and professionalism were obtained. Therefore, make this condition a shared awareness of the engineers who will be inaugurated and the alumni who will leave this beloved USU, to carry out all work earnestly. Surely, both will jointly obtain a good reputation and recognition from the public," he explained.

The Secretary of the Indonesian Engineers Association, Ir. Bambang Goeritno, M.Sc., IPU, explained that the development of the engineering profession continues to be carried out. They are increasingly expanding universities to be able to hold professional engineering education.

"At least 40 universities have been given permission to open Professional Engineering Study Programs since April 11, 2016. This has increased the number of graduates as of September 2021 to 10,267 people," he said.

He hopes that the inaugurated engineers can contribute to solving the existing problems. The current developments provide various challenges. It takes superior abilities to be able to solve them.

"The challenges of engineering today are increasingly diverse and heavy. Engineers face the challenges of digitalization and automation today. On the other hand, engineers must be able to adapt to the energy transition. More broadly, engineers are expected to be able to create infrastructure that can withstand the changing global climate," said Bambang.

As is known, since the PSPPI was established at USU on February 10, 2017, until now, a total of 226 graduates have been produced in 7 batches. This number includes 42 seventh-batch engineers who were inaugurated on this occasion. Meanwhile, for the 8th Batch, which is currently undergoing Semester B of the 2021/2022 Academic Year, there are 65 participants. (RR)

 

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara