MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Cultural Science
Faculty of Cultural Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

fib@usu.ac.id

Established in 1965, the Faculty of Cultural Science (FIB) of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) has become a center of academic excellence by offering 10 undergraduate programs, 4 master's programs, and 1 doctoral program, all well-accredited. The USU Faculty of Cultural Science is devoted to social, linguistic, literary, and cultural studies, providing education to students interested in pursuing arts, literature, and culture. Managed by the best and the most experienced experts in literature and culture, as well as adequate facilities, we are committed to guiding our students to become experts in their fields and able to compete at both national and international levels. Graduates of the Faculty of Cultural Science have broad career prospects, being able to work in research institutions, government, educational institutions, and national and international institutions involved in community development and empowerment.

Visit Faculty Page

Chinese Language

Undergraduate Program

Ethnomusicology

Undergraduate Program

Historical Science

Undergraduate Program

Library and Information Science

Undergraduate Program

Arabic Literature

Undergraduate Program

Batak Literature

Undergraduate Program

Indonesian Literature

Undergraduate Program

English Literature

Undergraduate Program

Japanese Literature

Undergraduate Program

Melayu Literature

Undergraduate Program

English Language

Master Program

Historical Science

Master Program

Linguistics

Master Program

Arts Creation and Studies

Master Program

Linguistics

Doctoral Program

Vision of Faculty of Cultural Science

By 2026, the USU Faculty of Cultural Science at Universitas of Sumatera Utara will become an excellent and internationally recognized education, research, and community service institution in the field of culture characterized by local excellence.

Mission of Faculty of Cultural Science

BINTANG

To make the USU Faculty of Cultural Science a center for documenting cultural knowledge and a house of creative work to develop the intellectual capacity of graduates with personality and strengthen the pluralistic cultural values of the nation.

Education

To implement and manage education management in a planned, integrated, and dynamic manner, oriented towards improving the quantity and quality of graduates with excellent competence in their field, who have competitiveness at the local, national, and international levels.

Research

To implement research based on local wisdom and ethnicity, with the results published in nationally accredited journals and internationally reputable journals as well as disseminated widely to stakeholders.

Service

To implement community service in a planned, institutionalized, measurable, dynamic, and quantity and quality-oriented manner, especially in the development and documentation of community cultural values.

Contact Us
Faculty of Cultural Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Universitas No.19, Padang Bulan, Kec. Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20155

(061)8215956

fib@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara