MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Socialization Of SDGs At USU: Raising Awareness And Real Action Of The Academic Community
Socialization of SDGs at USU: Raising Awareness and Real Action of the Academic Community
Published At
21 February 2025
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Socialization of SDGs at USU: Raising Awareness and Real Action of the Academic Community
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 21 February 2025

“Whatever policy we do, we hope it will have the greatest impact. Hopefully, this socialization will increase the awareness of lecturers and students. Then we need to think about what programs we should do,” said Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan, S.Si., M.Si., Apt.

 

Public Relations USU - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held a Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Socialization entitled “Empowering Change Through Universities: Enhancing Awareness and Knowledge on Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to Drive Global Impact.” The activity was held at the Digital Learning Center Building USU on Tuesday and Wednesday (18-19/2/2025).

 

The socialization lasted for two days, with the aim of increasing awareness and strengthening the entire USU academic community's commitment to supporting the achievement of SDGs. Lecturers attended the first day, and students attended the second day.

 

In her speech, Vice Rector III of USU Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan, S.Si., M.Si., Apt. emphasized the strategic role of universities in sustainable development through education, research, and community service, which must be optimized. She said that higher education institutions have a big responsibility in realizing sustainable development goals.

“Higher education has three main roles in achieving SDGs, namely through education, research, and social involvement, which are followed up in the implementation of Tri Dharma, which we do. I invite the entire USU academic community to make SDGs a part of commitment and real action. Let us work together in developing programs that contribute to the achievement of SDGs,” said Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan, S.Si., M.Si., Apt.

 

This activity presented four speakers, namely Dr. Djonet Santoso, MA, SDGs Expert from Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), with the material “System Thinking of SDGs and Introduction to SDGs Indicators”; Bayu Arie Fianto, S.E., M.B.A., Ph.D, as Chair of the Indonesia SDGs Center Network, with the material “Good Practices and Strategies of UNAIR SDGs Center in Achieving THE (Times Higher Education) Ranking”; Dr. Wahyu Ario Pratomo, S.E., M.Ec., as Head of SDGs Center USU, with the material “The Role of the University of North Sumatra in Supporting the Achievement of SDGs”; Dr. Rulianda Purnomo Wibowo, SP, M. Ec. as Lecturer and Expert of SDGs Center USU with the material “Introduction to SDGs and Increasing Student Concern in Supporting SDGs”.

 

Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan, S.Si., M.Si., Apt. explained USU's policies that are guided by the SDGs, especially in the implementation of research, which is expected to have a real impact on society. Furthermore, Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan, S.Si., M.Si., Apt. said the need for concrete steps to raise more awareness of SDGs in the campus environment.

“Whatever policy we do, we hope it will have the greatest impact. Hopefully, this socialization will increase the awareness of lecturers and students. Then we need to think about what programs we should do,” said Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan, S.Si., M.Si., Apt.

 

On the same occasion, Dr. Wahyu Ario Pratomo SE., M.Ec., as Chair of the USU SDGSs Center, revealed that USU has made significant progress in several SDGs goals, such as the 14th goal of the USU Mangrove PUI contribution, as well as in the health sector. Dr. Wahyu Ario Pratomo SE, M.Ec., also said many activities have been done in line with the SDGs. Still, the recording and reporting of activities need to be improved so that USU can achieve a better ranking.

“We have a good rank in the 14th goal. We have PUI mangrove. The world appreciates USU's contribution. Achievements in health are also good, our doctors do a lot of community service. We have a lot of merit, but the recording is forgotten, we need to improve it again, “said Dr. Wahyu Ario Pratomo SE., M.Ec.

 

Therefore, Dr. Wahyu Ario Pratomo SE., M.Ec. emphasized the importance of collaboration between the government, academia, and the private sector to achieve SDGs followed by socialization in a broader scale. Dr. Wahyu Ario Pratomo SE., M.Ec., mentioned that USU actively cooperates with the government in the action plan and evaluation of SDGs. Dr. Wahyu Ario Pratomo SE, M.Ec. emphasized that sustainable development is important to ensure future generations can enjoy the earth's resources.

“SDGs are not only the government, we are also academics, private sector, philanthropy, NGOs, collaborating with each other. USU has a collaboration with the government, we assist the action plan, are involved in monitoring its achievement, and provide recommendations. There may be more thematic ones for socialization in the future. SDGs have become a global issue. So we maintain this earth so that anyone can enjoy it, for generations to come,” explained Dr. Wahyu Ario Pratomo SE, M.Ec.

 

Fauziah Khairunnisa, an Environmental Engineering study program student at the Faculty of Engineering (FT) USU, revealed that USU is preparing the USU Circularity Center located at the USU Fourth Door TPS. This center was initiated by the Environmental Engineering study program and developed in collaboration with the Faculty of Agriculture, especially the Animal Husbandry study program, and the Faculty of Psychology. This program is designed to ensure that all waste in the USU environment can be sorted and processed properly so that it can support the SDGs.

“This is a program that our study program initiated, Circularity Center USU at TPS Pintu Empat, in collaboration with the faculty of agriculture, namely the Animal Husbandry study program and the Faculty of Psychology. The hope is that all waste will be sorted and processed so that waste management at USU is integrated and can support SDGs,” said Fauziah Khairunnisa.

 

By participating in this activity, Fauziah Khairunnisa said that awareness is the main thing that needs to be instilled to support the SDGs. Through this socialization, participants gained insight into USU's various efforts in supporting SDGs and are expected to share the understanding gained with other students and encourage real action in implementing SDGs.

“The first step we have to do is raise awareness and then influence our friends to be aware and care for each other. From this socialization, I know what USU has done to realize the SDGs. Hopefully, participants can influence, and there will be real action from students regarding implementing the SDGs,” said Fauziah Khairunnisa. 

News
SDGs 15
SDGs 4
SDGs
SDGs 16
SDGs 17
SDGs Headline
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara