MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Excellent Research
Waste Management: Maintaining The Idea Of A Beautiful Medan City
Waste Management: Maintaining the Idea of a Beautiful Medan City
Published At
29 May 2024
Published By
Dr.Eng. Ir. Hafizhul Khair AM S.T., M.T.
Waste Management: Maintaining the Idea of a Beautiful Medan City
 

Published by

Dr.Eng. Ir. Hafizhul Khair AM S.T., M.T.

Published at

Wednesday, 29 May 2024

Medan City, one of Indonesia’s largest cities, faces significant waste management challenges. Ineffective waste management systems, rapid economic growth, diverse waste characteristics, and lifestyle contribute to complex environmental problems. With a population of 2.4 million and an increase of 0.89% per year (2015 data), Medan City generates significant waste. In addition, Medan City is a destination for urbanization by people on the island of Sumatra.

Waste generated by households and other activities has not been processed properly. This triggers various environmental problems, such as water, soil, and air pollution. Lack of infrastructure, technology, and human resources are the main factors that hinder the effectiveness of the waste management system. Medan City is trying to succeed in the 2020 Waste-Free Indonesia program.

Dr. Hafizul Khair, an environmental engineer from the Universitas Sumatera Utara, analyzed this phenomenon. Together with Indriyani Rachman and Toru Matsumoto from the University of Kitakyushu, Japan, they conducted mapping to obtain data on the quantity and composition of household waste. They then analyzed this data with the geographical conditions and income of the community.

“Waste disposal in Medan City has not been well managed. Although the Medan City Cleanliness and Parks Agency collects waste daily and claims 80% of the area has been covered, this has not reduced the habit of people dumping waste into rivers or vacant lots,” said Dr. Hafizul Khair.

In waste management, the Medan City Government divides the responsibility to the regional apparatus and sub-districts. Each sub-district has one vehicle for mobilizing waste to the Terjun landfill managed by the Medan City Government. However, this waste does not go through a sorting process; it is simply piled up without treatment.

“Data obtained in 2016 shows that the waste entering this landfill was 1,600 tons daily, and increased in 2017 to 2,000 tons per day. This pile invites the presence of scavengers who take advantage of it by selling waste that can be processed to collectors,” he explained.

Dr. Hafizul Khair and his team conducted the study on 424 sample households spread across 8 out of 21 sub-districts in Medan City. The samples were divided according to income, namely high, medium, and low income. Waste composition analysis used SNI 19-3964-1994 as a reference. 2,956.77 kg of household waste was obtained for analysis.

They found that the estimated daily household waste in Medan City ranged from an average of 0.222 kg/person/day. Organic waste consisting of food waste was the most significant fraction, accounting for 61.35% of the total weight. Plastic waste, composed of plastic shopping bags, wrappers, bottles, and toys, amounted to 17.55% of the total weight. Meanwhile, paper waste amounted to 8.20%. Other leather, wood, cloth, rubber, and glass waste amounted to 12.90% of the total weight.

The household waste generation in each location is statistically different. Although organic waste still dominates, areas located 0-5 km from the city center, for example, are also filled with waste derived from paper or plastic fast food wrappers. Meanwhile, the income level of the residents showed an insignificant influence on the difference in waste generated.

“Based on the data obtained, household waste accounts for one-third of the amount of waste disposed of in the landfill every day. Most of the waste from households in Medan City is compostable, at 61.35%, followed by recyclable waste, at 28.70%,” explained Dr. Hafizul Khair.

The increasing amount of waste accumulation every year has the potential to fill the Terjun landfill faster. On the other hand, the government will find it challenging to find new land for landfills. One campaign being promoted is the 3R concept, namely Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle. The government seeks to recycle waste to reuse it for various activities.

Dr. Hafizul Khair also explained that the government can promote the Waste Bank program. The community is invited to contribute to managing their waste. People who manage waste into useful and valuable materials will get money in return. This is based on the amount of waste that can be recycled or composted, reaching 91.69%. However, the Waste Bank is not yet formally managed in Medan City; instead, it is managed by the private sector. Until 2017, there were 97 Waste Banks, and only 13 were classified as good.

“The government must immediately ensure proper waste management to create a beautiful environment. Waste Banks must have adequate infrastructure and technology to process waste effectively. Through appropriate measures, Medan City can address waste management issues and create a cleaner and healthier environment for its people,” he said.

Dr. Hafizul Khair also encouraged the government to raise public awareness and fulfill the technical aspects. People must be educated to reduce and sort waste from their homes. According to him, waste management can be effective if it starts from the source.

SDGs
SDGs 2
SDGs 12
Paper Details
Journal
Journal of Material Cycles and Waste Management
Title
Analyzing Household Waste Generation and Its Composition to Espand the Solid Waste Bank Program in Indonesia: a Case Study of Medan City
Authors
Hafizhul Khair, Indriyani Rachman, Toru Matsumoto
Author Affiliations
Department of Enviromental Engineering, Faculty of Engineering Universitas Sumatera Utara, Sumatera Utara, 20155, Indonesia
Graduate Programs in Environmental Systems, Graduate School of Enviromental Engineering, The University of Kitakyushu, 1-1 Hibikino, Wakamatsu-ku, Kitakyushu, Fukuoka 808-0135, Japan
DOI
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10163-019-00840-6
Find More Articles
Research Articles
The Impact of Illustrated Modules in Combating Stunting on Nias
Research Articles
Green Innovation Practices in Palm Oil Refineries
Research Articles
Guardians in Silence: A Deep Dive into the Work of UN Interpreters

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara