MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
About
Duties And Functions
Duties and Functions
Universitas Sumatera Utara

USU’s Vision

To become a university with academic excellence as a benchmark for the advancement of knowledge that can compete on a global scale.

USU’s Mission

To conduct autonomy-based higher education that serves as a platform for the character and professionalism development of human resources, which is based on empowerment containing the spirit of democratization of education that acknowledges pluralism with an educational orientation that emphasizes the aspect of searching for alternative solutions to actual problems based on scientific, moral, and conscience studies;
To produce graduates who become agents of change as a force of modernization in the life of society at large, who have strong academic competence, relevance, and competitiveness, as well as who behave with ethical intellectualism; and
To implement, develop, and improve education, research culture, and community service activities in order to improve academic quality by developing superior science, which benefits the wider society in improving their way of life.

Duties of USU

Based on Government Regulation No. 16 of 2014 concerning USU Statute, the main duties of USU are:

Organizing autonomy-based higher education as a forum for character development and human resource professionalism based on empowering the spirit of democratization of education in pluralism including the development and improvement of education, research culture and community service programs so that they are beneficial for changing people's lives for the better.

Functions of USU

USU's function is to organize higher education in order to develop and improve:

The ability to form a character as a dignified nation in educating an innovative, responsive, creative, skilled, competitive, and cooperative nation through the implementation of Tridharma;
Science and technology by applying humanities values for the quality of life and the environment.

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara