MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Engineering
Master's Program In Mechanical Engineering
Master Program
Mechanical Engineering
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Master's Program in Mechanical Engineering is a continuation of undergraduate-level education in the same field. With a focus on developing technical skills and a deep understanding of engineering science, the program prepares students to become experts in their field. They will learn about various advanced topics such as machine design, material strength analysis, fluid dynamics, and system control, as well as the latest production technologies relevant to the industry.

In addition, the program emphasizes the development of research and innovation skills, by providing students with opportunities to engage in current research relevant to the field of mechanical engineering. Supported by experienced lecturers and modern laboratory facilities, USU's Master's Program in Mechanical Engineering students are expected to make significant contributions in facing future technological challenges and advancing the mechanical engineering industry at the national and international levels.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

magistermesin@usu.ac.id

Master's Program in Mechanical Engineering

Accredited Baik Sekali

1454/SK/BAN-PT/Akred/M/III/2021

Vision of Master's Program in Mechanical Engineering

To become an internationally competitive Master of Mechanical Engineering Program that has academic excellence characterized by local wealth.

Mission of Master's Program in Mechanical Engineering

Academic Climate

Creating a conducive academic climate in achieving the teaching-learning process, research and community service.

Excellent Graduates

Organizing mechanical engineering master's education with a competency-based curriculum to produce excellent graduates who are able to answer the demands of the national and international markets.

Problem Solving

Encourage and cultivate research activities and problem solving faced by the community.

International Competitiveness

Developing internationally competitive academic excellence characterized by local wealth by synergizing with government, industry and alumni.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Materials and Structures

Energy Conversion

Manufacturing Engineering

Maintenance Engineering/Management

Sustainable Energy Management & Technology

Contact Us
Master's Program in Mechanical Engineering
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Almamater, Padang Bulan, Kec. Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20155

(+62) - 618213250

magistermesin@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara