MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU-UMRI MoU, Plans For Student And Lecturer Exchange
USU-UMRI MoU, Plans for Student and Lecturer Exchange
Published At
07 February 2024
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU-UMRI MoU, Plans for Student and Lecturer Exchange
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 07 February 2024

“This cooperation is related to the implementation of education, training, assessment, research, and institutional development, which are included in the tri dharma area of higher education,” explained Prof. Muryanto.

USU PR - Rector of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin S.Sos., M.Si welcomed the opportunity to cooperate with Universitas Muhammadiyah Riau, which was confirmed in the form of signing a memorandum of understanding (MoU). This cooperation was agreed upon in the Rector's Audience Room, USU Central Administration Bureau Building, on Wednesday (07/02/2024).

The areas of cooperation are related to efforts to create a superior and ready-to-use generation, which can contribute to development efforts and improve people's welfare. It is also a follow-up to the cooperation program related to the implementation of Merdeka Belajar Kampus Merdeka (MBKM) which has been agreed between the two institutions, which hopefully can be implemented soon.

In his remarks, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin S.Sos., M.Si explained that the purpose of this collaboration is to improve the quality of human resources owned and produced by the two universities, which will later be developed in various forms of activities that support the development of insight, science, and innovation.

“This cooperation is related to the implementation of education, training, assessment, research, and institutional development, which are included in the three pillars of higher education,” explained Prof. Muryanto.

Furthermore, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin S.Sos., M.Si highlighted the faculties, institutions, and work units directly involved as cooperation partners, which can be formulated in detail the concept of activities, program implementation, and its output so that it can be measured to what extent the smoothness and success of the cooperation carried out, to become an evaluation, starting point and starting point for the implementation of the next stage of cooperation.

“We hope that with the signing of this memorandum of understanding, the existing relationship can be closer and make a positive contribution to both institutions, the nation and the state,” hoped Prof. Muryanto.

Dr. H. Saidul Amin, MA as the Rector of Universitas Muhammadiyah Riau stated that USU is a mascot of state universities that not only represents Sumatra, but also becomes an educational standard for Indonesia. He hopes that USU's success can spread to UMRI. In this effort, collaboration will be established through student exchange, and lecturer exchange with the hope that lecturers from UMRI can teach at USU, and vice versa.

“It's like Pekanbaru people say; ikan sepat ikan tenggiri, elok dimakan dengan terasi. No one is great on their own, so let's collaborate. So, later, we will learn more from each other, “said Dr. Saidul.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Public Relations

Interviewee: Prof. Muryanto Amin - Rector of USU

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Public Relations

News
SDGs 4
SDGs
SDGs 16
Collaboration
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara