MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Holds Socialization Of The Dangers Of Online Gambling For Lecturers And Education Personnel
USU Holds Socialization of the Dangers of Online Gambling for Lecturers and Education Personnel
Published At
20 November 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
USU Holds Socialization of the Dangers of Online Gambling for Lecturers and Education Personnel
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Wednesday, 20 November 2024

“Online gambling is a serious threat that not only has a financial impact but also disrupts household stability and mental health. In fact, this activity can damage the career and personal life of the perpetrators,” said Vice Rector II USU.

USU PR - The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) through the Bureau of Human Resources held a socialization of the dangers of online gambling to lecturers and education staff Civil Servants (PNS) in the campus environment. It took place online through the Zoom platform, on Tuesday (12/11/2024).

This socialization presented AKP Vicktor R.P Pasaribu, SH, MH, from the North Sumatra Police Cyber Detection Directorate as the main speaker. This activity follows up on the Circular Letter of the Ministry of Research and Technology and PANRB in 2024 regarding the prevention of online gambling in government agencies, including campuses. USU emphasized its commitment to creating a campus environment free from illegal activities.

Vice Rector II for Human Resources and Finance of USU, Dr. Muhammad Arifin Nasution, S.Sos., M.SP., revealed that this socialization aims to encourage collective awareness among lecturers and education personnel so that they can jointly protect themselves and their families from dangerous risks.

“Online gambling is a serious threat that not only has a financial impact but also destabilizes households and mental health. In fact, this activity can damage the careers and personal lives of the perpetrators,” said Dr. Arifin.

According to the USU Vice Rector II, the rapid development of digital technology is one of the main factors behind the increase in online gambling cases among the public, including in the academic environment. With digital devices that are now easily accessible to anyone, including educated people, online gambling has become increasingly widespread and troubling.

“Unfortunately, this easy access makes many people trapped in the circle of online gambling. The impact is no joke, online gambling offenders can be subject to severe legal sanctions, which will be explained in more detail by our resource persons today,” Dr. Arifin continued.

In line with that, AKP Vicktor R.P Pasaribu, SH, MH, explained various aspects of online gambling and its increasingly worrying impact in Indonesia, especially among the young and educated. According to him, technological developments have facilitated access to online gambling, which can now be accessed directly through mobile phones, thus increasing the number of users.

“The social and economic impact of online gambling is devastating. Many people are trapped in huge debts due to online gambling, which ultimately damages family relationships, mental health disorders, and disrupts social stability and work productivity,” explained AKP Vicktor.

In addition, AKP Vicktor R.P Pasaribu, SH, MH explained police efforts in combating online gambling, such as cyber patrols, blocking gambling sites, and strict action against gambling networks. He emphasized the importance of collaboration with various parties, including educational institutions such as USU, to jointly suppress online gambling cases in the community.

“We also really need cooperation with various parties, including educational institutions such as USU, to jointly suppress online gambling cases in the community,” he said.

News
SDGs 4
SDGs
SDGs 16
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara