MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Scientific Oration Of The 68th Anniversary Of USU Faculty Of Agriculture
Scientific Oration of the 68th Anniversary of USU Faculty of Agriculture
Published At
26 November 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
Scientific Oration of the 68th Anniversary of USU Faculty of Agriculture
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Tuesday, 26 November 2024

“We are committed to continuously improving the quality of education and supporting the achievement of international accreditation so that the USU Faculty of Agriculture is able to compete in the global arena. In addition, the role of alumni is very important in helping students prepare for the world of work and contribute to the national agricultural sector,” said Prof. Tavi.

USU PR - The Faculty of Agriculture, Universitas Sumatera Utara (FP USU) held a scientific oration as part of the series of 68th Anniversary celebrations. The event featured PalmCo's Operations Director, Rizal Damanik, who delivered a presentation entitled “PalmCo's Role in the Transformation of National Oil Palm Plantations.” The event took place successfully at Suratman Hall, Faculty of Agriculture USU, on Friday (22/11/2024).

In her speech, Vice Rector III of USU, Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan, S.Si., M.Si., Apt. representing the Rector of USU, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., congratulated the Faculty of Agriculture on its 68th anniversary. He expressed his hope that the faculty will continue to grow into an institution that plays an active role in the international arena.

This year's anniversary carries the theme “Preparing Alumni of the USU Faculty of Agriculture who are Resilient and Ready to Compete in the World of Work or Entrepreneurship”. This theme reflects the faculty's commitment in equipping students with the ability to adapt to global challenges, such as technological developments, globalization, climate change, and market dynamics.

Vice Rector III emphasized the importance of Faculty of Agriculture students having relevant technical knowledge and skills. In addition, he encouraged the development of an entrepreneurial spirit so that graduates are not only ready to work but also able to create jobs through innovation and technology-based businesses. As part of this effort, the Faculty of Agriculture continues to be committed to improving the quality of education through a curriculum that is relevant to industry needs, internship programs, and community service activities.

“Entrepreneurship in agriculture is not only about growing crops but also about managing innovation and technology-based businesses that have a positive impact on society,” said Prof. Poppy.

On the same occasion, the Dean of the USU Faculty of Agriculture, Prof. Dr. Ir. Tavi Supriana, M.Si., explained that the faculty continues to strive to improve its international reputation. One of the steps is to receive an international accreditation assessment visitation from related institutions on December 2-3. Study programs such as Agroecotechnology, Food Technology, and Animal Husbandry are expected to get the best results in the accreditation.

Prof. Tavi also expressed his appreciation for the contribution of alumni in supporting students and faculty, both through work experience and collaboration in the agricultural sector. The faculty is also committed to supporting the achievement of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), especially in alleviating poverty through the agricultural sector.

“We are committed to continuously improving the quality of education and supporting the achievement of international accreditation so that the USU Faculty of Agriculture is able to compete in the global arena. In addition, the role of alumni is very important in helping students prepare for the world of work and contribute to the national agricultural sector,” said Prof. Tavi.

Meanwhile, Chairman of the FP USU 68th Anniversary Committee, Erwanda Surya, SP, M.Agr, explained that this celebration involved various interesting activities. In addition to alumni gathering and sharing experiences, the activities continued with blood donation, fun walk, charity action, handover of IKA FP USU Chairperson, bazaar, distribution of free seeds, and free health checks.

“This anniversary is a special moment of togetherness. In addition to sharing experiences with alumni, a series of activities such as blood donation, fun walk, and bazaar aim to strengthen the relationship between the academic community while providing benefits to the surrounding community,” explained Erwanda.

The event involves the class of 1994 alumni as the main committee. The peak of the celebration will feature various competitions aimed at strengthening the cohesiveness of the entire USU Faculty of Agriculture academic community. This 68th Anniversary is an important momentum for the Faculty of Agriculture USU to continue to move forward, strengthening its position as a center for agricultural education and research that is globally competitive.

News
SDGs 4
SDGs
SDGs 8
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara