MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
DPD RI Together With FH USU FGD On Job Creation Law
DPD RI Together with FH USU FGD on Job Creation Law
Published At
22 March 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
DPD RI Together with FH USU FGD on Job Creation Law
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 22 March 2022

"So DPD is working together to identify various problems that may arise, that's what we are trying to discuss. As an academic, USU's Faculty of Law also provides input, especially regarding the impact of implementing the Ciptaker Law at the North Sumatra regional level," said the dean.

PR USU - The Regional Representative Council (DPD) of the Republic of Indonesia together with the Faculty of Law (FH) of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held a Focus Group Discussion (FGD) regarding the Job Creation Law. This activity was carried out at USU's Faculty of Law, Thursday (17/03/2022).

The Dean of USU's Faculty of Law, Dr. Mahmul Siregar, S.H., M.Hum said that after the Ciptaker Law was formally tested at the Constitutional Court, there was an order from the Constitutional Court the government to make improvements from the formal side. In this FGD, as an academic, USU's FH assisted the DPD and the Special Committee to identify various legal issues and the implementation of the Ciptaker Law at the regional level and their relationship to regional autonomy.

"So DPD is working together to identify various problems that may arise, that's what we are trying to discuss. As an academic, USU's Faculty of Law also provides input, especially regarding the impact of implementing the Ciptaker Law at the North Sumatra regional level," said the dean.

He said later it would be the DPD who would discuss further and make recommendations to the DPR or the government so that the implementation of the law and its refinement could accommodate regional interests and involve wider participation of local communities and regional governments various other stakeholders.

"The DPD will make recommendations. In addition to the formal side, some many discussions and problems will arise in its substance; when the Constitution is perfected, it can be anticipated that a material review of the Law will be anticipated," he continued.

Dr. Mahmul Siregar hopes that, apart from improving the formal side, the substance of the Ciptaker Law also needs to be improved to accelerate economic development, create jobs and pay attention to community involvement in its formulation.

“The implementation of this constitution is in areas where people will feel more. We hope that after it is perfected, there will be no significant impact on regional autonomy, the economy, and regional communities," he said.

On this occasion, Senator from North Sumatra Province, Dr. H.Dedi Iskandar Batubara, S.Sos., S.H., M.S.P said that today's meeting produced critical notes used as material by the DPD to formulate views and recommendations which will then be discussed with the government.

"In this position, the DPD is interested in forming a special committee so that the next recommendation can be formulated after the Constitutional Court's decision regarding the Ciptaker Law," explained Dr. Dedi.

According to him, USU's Faculty of Law is one of the legal education institutions with adequate human resources to represent a representation of the inventory and input needs.

"USU's Faculty of Law is one of the best in my opinion, and has a long track record of relations with the state. USU has done quite a lot of cooperation. There are also large trade unions, labor unions and industries here," he concluded.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Collaboration
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara