MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Receives Visit From Honorary Consul Of The Kingdom Of Thailand
USU Receives Visit from Honorary Consul of the Kingdom of Thailand
Published At
13 October 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Receives Visit from Honorary Consul of the Kingdom of Thailand
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 13 October 2023

We would like to thank you for the support and cooperation between USU and Thailand while hoping that the partnership and friendship can be directed towards good things," said Prof. Muryanto.

USU PR - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) welcomed the visit of the Honorary Consul of the Kingdom of Thailand, Dr. Ir. Martono Anggusti, SH, MM, M.Hum, and his staff. The visit, which discussed cooperation related to the implementation of the MBKM program, took place in the Rector's Audience Room, USU Central Administration Bureau Building. On Wednesday (05/10/2023).

USU Rector, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., revealed that USU is always enthusiastic to welcome opportunities, in establishing relationships with friendly countries and international partners. Also establishing cross-border cooperation in the fields of education, research, and culture to strengthen the friendship between the two countries.

"Where Thailand is one of the partners that means a lot to us. From this meeting we build understanding and strengthen friendship between the two countries," said Prof. Muryanto.

Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., revealed that this partnership can lead to new opportunities for students, lecturers, and researchers from both sides. In improving university rankings, expanding the scope of research, exchanging information, and developing scientific discoveries that have a positive impact on the global community.

"We would like to thank you for the support and cooperation between USU and Thailand, while hoping that the partnership and friendship can be directed towards good things," said Prof. Muryanto.

With the spirit to achieve positive results, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin S.sos., M.Si. highlighted the importance of the upcoming meeting. And expressed his hope that this visit would serve as a foundation for future meetings. As a means to generate sustainability and further development in achieving common goals. 

"We hope that we can follow up this visit with subsequent meetings that will strengthen our common goals and interests," said Prof. Muryanto.

Vice Rector III for Research, Community Service, and Cooperation of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan, S.Si., M.Si., Apt said that today is the initial meeting with the Honorary Consul of the Kingdom of Thailand, which will be followed by efforts to strengthen USU's cooperation with universities in Thailand.

"Of course later we want to be escorted, yes. For cooperation between USU and several universities in Thailand. Incidentally, Mr. Martono is a USU alumni too," explained Prof. Poppy.

Dr. Ir. Martono Anggusti, SH, MM, M.Hum as the Honorary Consul of the Kingdom of Thailand, who is also a USU alumnus, explained that he has duties in the fields of economy, education, and culture. The plan is to encourage student exchange programs, lecturers, research, and other initiatives between the two countries to develop each other.

"We know that both countries have their strengths and weaknesses. So we will take advantage of that to develop each other," Dr. Martono explained.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Collaboration
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara