MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Rector Conveys Six Excellent University Strategies At The World Class Professor Event
USU Rector Conveys Six Excellent University Strategies at the World Class Professor Event
Published At
29 October 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Rector Conveys Six Excellent University Strategies at the World Class Professor Event
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 29 October 2021

"North Sumatra has a variety of ethnicities, religions or we can also call it very multiculturalism. This geographical condition makes it a lot of advantages that this area has. If it is managed properly it has a global market, it is the campus' job to foster it,” Mury said.

USU PR – Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., was the keynote speaker at the World Class Professor event with the theme University Strategy Towards Excellence, Tuesday (10/12/2021). On that occasion, the Rector explained six priority work programs to make USU a superior university in the next five years.

The Rector said that currently USU has made its mark on international rankings. This indicates that USU will continue to improve to become an international standard campus characterized by local excellence.

"North Sumatra has a variety of ethnicities, religions or we can also call it very multiculturalism. This geographical condition makes it a lot of advantages that this area has. If it is managed properly it has a global market, it is the campus' job to foster it,” Murry said.

He gave an example that one of the local potentials is palm oil whose products are worldwide also a maritime advantage. The USU campus will be used as a downstream location for local products in North Sumatra.

The Rector said there are six priorities that are currently being carried out by USU to become an international standard campus with local characteristics.

"First is to change the structure of institutional governance that is adaptive to change. To change governance we need professional management people. So our governance is not rigid and can respond to changes quickly," he said.

Second, namely adjusting the tasks of the Tri Dharma of Higher Education where the adjustment follows the needs of the industry. The concept of Merdeka Learning Merdeka Campus (MBKM) makes the current learning process project-based.

Third is the arrangement of infrastructure. USU's infrastructure arrangement is also to support campus internationalization.

"So the arrangement is adjusted to the needs of international standards, adequate laboratories, comfortable open spaces, clean toilets, classrooms are not monopolized but can be used by all study programs so that there is a mix in the classroom," he said.

Fourth is campus service bureaucratic reform. "We are currently trying to cut service flow by implementing an e-office and establishing a one-stop application (ASA) in each faculty so that services can be easier and can be monitored," he said.

Fifth is the implementation of campus enterprise, where scientific and research products can be branded so that they can enter the industrial market. "Supporting the campus enterprise, we will involve professionals to develop prototypes of research results and invite companies to play an active role," he said.

While the sixth, or the last, Mury explained to strengthen cooperation with various parties.

"This cooperation is no longer just an MoU, but must also be detailed into a more specific work agreement. This cooperation must be selective so that it has maximum output for the two institutions that cooperate," he said.

Realizing the six priority programs, the former Dean of USU FISIP revealed several technical things that need to be done.

"These technical matters include services that must be oriented to students, courses must have a clear flow of application, create quality study programs with assistance from the quality management unit, implementation of campus digitalization and finally the application of reward and punishment," he said. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - PR

News
Campus Life
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara