MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Engineering
Undergraduate Program In Environmental Engineering
Undergraduate Program
Environmental Engineering
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Undergraduate Program in Environmental Engineering is a study program that aims to train students in sustainable environmental management and maintenance. Focusing on the interaction between humans and the environment, students will learn about technologies and strategies to minimize the negative impacts of the industrial sector on ecosystems and improve environmental quality.

With a comprehensive curriculum and supported by faculty members who are experts in their fields, students will engage in field projects and practicums to apply the knowledge they learn to real-life situations. Graduates of this study program are expected to become agents of change who can contribute to maintaining environmental sustainability and building a society that is more aware of the importance of nature conservation.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

tl@usu.ac.id

Undergraduate Program in Environmental Engineering

Accredited Unggul

0066/SK/LAM Teknik/AS/IV/2024

Vision of Undergraduate Program in Environmental Engineering

Becoming an Environmental Engineering Study Program that excels in the field of infrastructure and environmental management that is globally competitive in 2024

Mission of Undergraduate Program in Environmental Engineering

Global Competitiveness

Building excellence in professional education in the field of environmental engineering environmental engineering to produce graduates who are globally competitive and have an entrepreneurial spirit. Entrepreneur.

Sustainable Development

Conducting quality research in infrastructure and environmental management management to support sustainable development.

Community Service

Organizing community service activities, especially those related to environmental issues through educational activities and consulting services. environmental issues through educational activities and consulting services in a professional manner professional.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Water Supply Engineering

Wastewater Engineering

Solid Waste Management

Air Pollution

Contact Us
Undergraduate Program in Environmental Engineering
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Almamater, Padang Bulan, Kec. Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20155

(+62) - 618211236

tl@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara