MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Prepares International Spirit Summer Course 2023, Prevents Triple Burden Disease
USU Prepares International Spirit Summer Course 2023, Prevents Triple Burden Disease
Published At
06 July 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Prepares International Spirit Summer Course 2023, Prevents Triple Burden Disease
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 06 July 2023

After going through the Covid-19 Pandemic for more than three years, now developing countries, especially in Asia, are faced with the emergence of a new health burden apart from the burden of the two previous health problems, namely infectious diseases and non-communicable diseases. During the Covid-19 pandemic, restrictions on activities outside the home increased the sedentary lifestyle and indirectly impacted socio-economic changes on families. Apart from that, there has been a decrease in the number of people visiting hospitals or health centers to carry out routine checks for non-communicable diseases such as type-2 diabetes mellitus, hypertension, obesity, coronary heart disease.

This is due to the tendency of the Covid-19 pandemic. The above conditions have caused Asian countries to now face a triple burden of disease, namely communicable diseases that have not been resolved, non-communicable diseases whose numbers are increasing and global health conditions that appear like a pandemic.

 

Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is preparing for the 2023 International Spirit Summer Course, with the theme 'Promoting Physical Activity and Diet in Combating Growing Triple Burden of Disease in Asia'. This scientific activity will be held on July 24-31 2023 online and offline at the USU Faculty of Medicine.

 

Chairperson of the USU Spirit Summer Course 2023 Prof. Dr. dr. Dina Keumala Sari M Gizi SpGK(K) said, for this activity, 69 participants had registered online from Spain, India, Sri Lanka, Malaysia, Myanmar, Pakistan and Thailand.

 

"Participants who are planned to take part offline are India, Sri Lanka, Malaysia, Pakistan, Myanmar, Thailand and Singapore with a total of 14 people. Meanwhile participants from Indonesia are 10 people," said Prof. Dina in her press release, Wednesday 28 June 2023.

 

Dina explained, the reason for holding this scientific activity was because after going through the Covid-19 pandemic for more than three years, now developing countries, especially in Asia, were faced with the emergence of a new health burden problem.

 

The health burden is apart from the burden of the two previous health problems, namely infectious diseases and non-communicable diseases.

 

"During the Covid-19 pandemic, restrictions on activities outside the home increased a sedentary lifestyle and indirectly impacted socio-economic changes on families," he said.

 

Not only that, continued Dina, there has been a decrease in the number of people visiting hospitals or health centers to carry out routine checks for non-communicable diseases, such as diabetes mellitus, hypertension, obesity, coronary heart disease. This is due to the tendency of the Covid-19 pandemic.

 

"This condition causes Asian countries to now face a triple burden of disease, namely infectious diseases that have not been resolved, non-communicable diseases whose number is increasing and global health conditions that appear like a pandemic," explained Dina.

 

Therefore, USU together with the Erasmus Plus Funding SPIRIT Project, developed a curriculum focused on developing physical activity and nutrition for the prevention of non-communicable diseases.

 

This news also can be seen in online newspaper: https://prosumut.com/2023/06/29/usu-persiapkan-international-spirit-summer-course-2023-cegah-triple-burden-disease/

Author: Dina Keumala Sari -

Interviewee: -

Photographer: Universitas Sumatera Utara - Universitas Sumatera Utara

News
Erasmus
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara