MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Social Science And Political Science
Undergraduate Program In Business Administration Science
Undergraduate Program
Business Administration Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

As a study program accredited Very Good (A), the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Undergraduate Program in Business Administration is a center of excellence that provides education on various business-related situations, such as document recording, business data management, and product development.

Supported by high-quality individuals, our teaching staff is dedicated to continuously honing students' abilities in mastering the theory, development, and application of business administration concepts at local, national, and international levels. Equipped with various business administration knowledge and skills, graduates have various career opportunities, such as business analysts, consultants, HRD staff, marketers, and entrepreneurs.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

fisip@usu.ac.id

Undergraduate Program in Business Administration Science

Accredited Very Good

No. 460/DE/A.5/AR.10/VI/2023

Vision of Undergraduate Program in Business Administration Science

To become a study program that excels in education, research, and community service in business administration and produces graduates who are competitive at the global level in 2024

Mission of Undergraduate Program in Business Administration Science

International Level

Organizing national/international standard education in the field of business administration based on information technology.

Scientific Work

Producing scientific work useful for advancing the academic community, nation, and state through research activities in business administration science based on digital technology.

Public Service

Organizing public service by contributing thoughts, knowledge, and counseling through implementing business administration sciences based on digital information technology.

Professional Team

Preparing students to become professionals who have an entrepreneurial spirit and master digital technology in the field of business administration.

Entrepreneurs

Preparing students to become young entrepreneurs who can compete in Industry 4.0.

Collaboration

Build a collaboration network with stakeholders according to the field of concentration.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Socio-Humanities

Marketing

Human Resource (HR)

Contact Us
Undergraduate Program in Business Administration Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Dr. A. Sofian No. 1A Kampus USU Padang Bulan, Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20155

(+62)-618211965

fisip@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara