MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Medical Faculty International Conference Discusses Handling Covid-19 Cross-Country
USU Medical Faculty International Conference Discusses Handling Covid-19 Cross-Country
Published At
09 December 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Medical Faculty International Conference Discusses Handling Covid-19 Cross-Country
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 09 December 2021

USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin., S.Sos., M.Si., said the theme titled "Tackling Covid-19 in Developing Countries" was chosen as an effort to discuss and share information across countries. According to him, sharing this information is important in efforts to find solutions for handling Covid-19 with the potential threat of the emergence of new variants.

USU PR - The Faculty of Medicine, Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held the 3rd International Conference on Tropical Medicine and Infectious Disease (Ictromi) by presenting researchers and doctors who are dedicated to researching, treating, and preventing Covid-19 from Indonesia and around the world. This conference was held in a hybrid manner at the Grand Ballroom of the JW Marriott Hotel, Friday (12/3/2021).

USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin., S.Sos., M.Si said the theme titled "Tackling Covid-19 in Developing Countries" was chosen as an effort to discuss and share information across countries. According to him, sharing this information is important in efforts to find solutions for handling Covid-19 with the potential threat of the emergence of new variants.

"The emergence of new variants poses a frightening threat to the survival of mankind, as well as challenges and opportunities for countries in the world to rebuild their economic cycles that were hampered at the beginning of the pandemic," the Rector said.

Dr. Muryanto also said that after this conference, joint research and joint publication activities as well as other forms of cooperation would be established, as a follow-up and active response from academics and health practitioners who attended the conference to end the war against the dangerous virus Covid-19.

"Universities as institutions that have the authority to carry out research and innovation functions, of course have a big enough responsibility to guard these interests," he continued.

He hoped that this conference would be able to build a better synergy between the Government and universities, in formulating follow-up efforts and handling Covid-19.

On the same occasion, the Governor of North Sumatra, Lt. Gen. TNI (Ret.) Edy Rahmayadi appreciated the holding of this conference. According to him, this international conference was able to generate new ideas that were born from competent expert sources.

"Through this conference, we will know what to do to overcome the Covid-19 problem," said the governor.

He added that the condition of Indonesia, especially North Sumatra, shows that we are in the tropics. This tropical area is very likely to be affected by Covid-19, so a strategy is needed in a new pattern of handling Covid-19.

"Let's not be afraid to face this condition. We will fight and find a solution so that this problem can be resolved as soon as possible,” he concluded.

In line with this, the Chairman of the Committee, dr. Inke Nadia D Lubis, M.Ked (Ped), Sp.A, Ph.D. said, USU Medical Faculty has collaborated with the North Sumatra Provincial Government in handling Covid-19.

"So far, academics have worked closely with the provincial government," dr. Inke said.

dr. Inke added that the ICTROMI conference is held regularly every two years. "Usually the discussion focuses on infectious diseases, but because of the two-year Covid pandemic, we chose this topic," she said.

Also attending the conference were Coordinating Minister for Maritime Affairs and Investment of Indonesia General TNI (HOR) (Ret.) Luhut Binsar Panjaitan, MPA; Minister of Health of the Republic of Indonesia Ir. Budi Gunadi Sadikin, CHFC, CLU; the Dean of the USU Faculty of Medicine; The Vice Deans of the USU Faculty of Medicine; Heads of Departments and Heads of Study Programs at the USU Faculty of Medicine; Chairman of the Committee, dr. Inke Nadia D Lubis, M.Ked (Ped), Sp.A, Ph.D. and the lecturers and conference participants. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara