MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Inaugurated Three Permanent Professors, Rector: Additional Energy To Achieve Strategic Plan
USU Inaugurated Three Permanent Professors, Rector: Additional Energy to Achieve Strategic Plan
Published At
12 November 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Inaugurated Three Permanent Professors, Rector: Additional Energy to Achieve Strategic Plan
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 12 November 2021

The three professors delivered their inaugural speeches, namely, the inaugural speech by Ms. Prof. Ir. Seri Maulina, M.Si, PhD with the title "Life Cycle Assessment (Lca), Route Towards Eco-Efficiency". Inauguration speech by Ms. Prof. Dr. drg. Ameta Primasari, MDSc., M. Kes, entitled "Potential of Biomarkers and Saliva DNA in Establishing Diagnosis and Prognosis in Dentistry".

USU PR - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) inaugurated three permanent professors at the USU Auditorium offline and online via live youtube on Tuesday (11/09/2021). The three professors, namely Prof. Ir. Seri Maulina, M.Sc., PhD from the Faculty of Engineering, Prof. Dr. drg. Ameta Primasari, MDSc., M. Kes from the Faculty of Dentistry and Prof. Ir. Lilis Sukeksi, M.Sc., PhD from the Faculty of Engineering.

The three professors delivered their inaugural speeches, namely, the inaugural speech by Ms. Prof. Ir. Seri Maulina, M.Si, PhD with the title "Life Cycle Assessment (Lca), Route Towards Eco-Efficiency". Inauguration speech by Ms. Prof. Dr. drg. Ameta Primasari, MDSc., M. Kes, entitled "Potential of Biomarkers and Saliva DNA in Establishing Diagnosis and Prognosis in Dentistry" and the inaugural speech from Prof. Ir. Lilis Sukeksi, M.Sc., Ph.D, entitled, “Downstreaming of Coconut Derivative Products to Increase Added Value and Benefits for the Welfare of Indonesian Society.

USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin S.Sos., M.Si., in his remarks, explained, USU will continue to add professors significantly, to strengthen the achievement of the 2020-2024 Strategic Plan Period II. USU currently has 175 professors, with the details of 141 permanent professors with civil servant status, while non-civil servant professors number 34.

The Rector said the three inaugural speeches had urgency for the advancement of science that complemented the competencies and benefits of lecturers and other students.

"The increase in Professors at the Universitas Sumatera Utara is manifested as a driving force for all lecturers at USU, to carry out the noble task of the Tri Dharma of Higher Education with dedication and achieve the USU Strategic Plan," the Rector said.

According to Muryanto, Professors are leaders or role models of several activities related to the transformation of the tasks of the Tri Dharma of Higher Education. Through institutional design and priority programs, USU will continuously strive to implement and meet performance targets according to the established assessment criteria.

The Ministry of Education and Culture, Research and Technology has determined three research themes that will receive priority funding. The expected output is a scientific product that has downstream value and commercialization. In line with this USU will manage challenges well, one of which is changing the learning process in the classroom in line with research and community service, as well as forming and expanding research groups.

“The tagline transformation towards the ultimate must be translated into every Tri Darma activity at the Universitas Sumatera Utara. First, the transformation in the field of teaching is changing the way of learning to meet the criteria in the MBKM (Independent Learning, Independent Campus),” Mury continued.

He said, the second transformation is the field of research. Research must have the quality of international assessment standards which are translated into collaborative research product activities with various disciplines.

The third transformation is in the field of community service, namely community service programs that are planned for outcomes that can provide clear and measurable economic added value for the welfare of the community.

"The three examples of transformation will be carried out in a series of USU policies so that the achievement of the Main Performance Indicators can meet the gold standard," he said.

With the inauguration of these new professors, Muryanto hopes that USU will continue to develop to produce the best and useful works. Especially in increasing publications, innovation and community service, as well as achieving reputational performance at the national and international levels. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang, Muhammad Adriansyah - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara