MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU And Ministry Of Foreign Affairs Support Diplomacy Among Students
USU and Ministry of Foreign Affairs Support Diplomacy Among Students
Published At
04 September 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
USU and Ministry of Foreign Affairs Support Diplomacy Among Students
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Wednesday, 04 September 2024

“This public lecture is not only a learning session, but also a momentum to foster the spirit of students in contributing more actively to global issues said Prof. Poppy.”

USU PR - The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) became one of the hosts of the Public Lecture held by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (Kemenlu) of the Republic of Indonesia. With the theme “10 Years of Indonesian Diplomacy Performance”, simultaneous public lectures were held in 38 provinces throughout Indonesia. The public lecture was held in the Senate Conference Room, 3rd Floor of the USU Bureau, on (20/08/2024).

 

The public lecture also commemorated the 79th Anniversary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (Kemenlu) of the Republic of Indonesia on August 19. Highlighting a decade of Indonesia's diplomatic relations in the eyes of the world both in various aspects, namely economics, politics, education, and other things. As well as the role in the international arena in maintaining world peace with the principle of free and active foreign policy.

 

Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan, S.Si., M.Si., Apt., as the Vice Rector III for Research, Community Service, and Cooperation, said that the theme raised was very relevant to the various challenges Indonesia has faced in the international arena in the last ten years. Indonesia is a country with a strategic position to maintain regional and global stability.

 

“This public lecture is not only a learning session but also a momentum to foster student enthusiasm in contributing more actively to global issues,” said Prof. Poppy.

 

Also present in the Key Speaker through virtual, Retno L.P Marsudi as Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Indonesia (Menlu RI), said that on several occasions Indonesia was present to solve foreign political problems. Get involved in crucial conflicts that exist in the world. Especially in defending Palestine and supporting its independence.

 

The Indonesian Foreign Minister also advised young people, especially students, to continue the struggle of Indonesian diplomacy, which is not bound by anyone and applies free and active politics. “And continue the struggle of Indonesian diplomacy. Diplomacy that stands upright is ready to cooperate with anyone but we are not dictated by anyone,” he said.

 

The speaker of the Public Lecture, Diana E.S Sutikno, the Indonesian Consul General in Osaka, said that institutions are needed to support diplomacy by educating the nation, promoting public order and also maintaining peace, and actively contributing to the context of international security.

 

“So we really need diplomacy tools from both academics and universities. And diplomacy that advances knowledge,” he said.

 

On this occasion, the Dean of the Faculty of Social and Political Sciences (USU), Dr. Hatta Ridho, S.Sos., MSP, also became a guest speaker by presenting the material “Refleksi Satu Dekade Perjalanan Diplomasi Indonesia.”

 

News
SDGs
SDGs 16
SDGs 17
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara