MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Library Will Be Turned Into An Information And Literacy Center
USU Library Will Be Turned into an Information and Literacy Center
Published At
10 December 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Library Will Be Turned into an Information and Literacy Center
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 10 December 2021

According to the Rector USU, library changes do not only rely on physical, but also strengthen digital services. Digitalization is unavoidable, the USU Library will be upgraded to become an information and literacy center.

USU PR - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Library held an Online Reaccreditation Visitation, Tuesday (12/07/2021). USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin., S.Sos., M.Si. said that field assessments and document verification are part of the implementation of USU's library accreditation. "USU's library is one of the important points for USU in the next 5 year period," said the Chancellor.

On the occasion, the Rector also conveyed several important notes related to the field visitation.

"First, the USU library is a work unit with lecture substance to hone and add information about the development of science through the readings provided," he explained.

According to him, for the implementation of this substance, USU made changes to the library that did not only rely on physical, but also strengthened digital services. Digitalization is unavoidable, the USU Library will be upgraded to become an information and literacy center.

“Libraries will improve the quality of their services and keep up with massive digital developments. During this pandemic, we have also implemented library services through digital, so that existing books and reading materials can be accessed anywhere for students and lecturers," he continued.

Not only that, the Rector also said that the USU library is a source of pride for the university. Therefore, in the design for the next five years, the physical construction of the USU library is designed in the master plan.

"Not only the appearance of the building is good, but we will also create a public park as an open space for lecturers and students to learn," he said.

Dr. Muryanto hopes that the USU library can be a barometer for library services in other agencies, especially the city of Medan.

"In future activities, we will not only rely on financial and network capabilities, we will also collaborate with the City Government and Provincial Government libraries. Synergy is important to share each other's resources," he explained.

Head of Library Laila Hadri Nasution, S.Sos., M.P. said, in this activity the USU library received a lot of input and information from national assessors related to library development.

"The results of the accreditation will be a recommendation for the improvement of library services in the future," said Laila.

Laila added that his party will try to provide services in the library according to the needs of the USU academic community.

"The library will support all activities or be able to serve the USU academic community, we hope to make the most of what we provide at the library," he said.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara