MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Rector Delivers Material On The Challenges Of Leaders In The Digital Age At The Mandiri Learning Carnival
USU Rector Delivers Material on the Challenges of Leaders in the Digital Age at the Mandiri Learning Carnival
Published At
10 November 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Rector Delivers Material on the Challenges of Leaders in the Digital Age at the Mandiri Learning Carnival
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 10 November 2021

"The pleasure of using digital technology can at least be minimized by carrying out a reconstruction of the Tri Dharma. We must adapt the Tri Dharma of higher education with a series of methods that are integrative, outcome oriented, multiple helix, and tailor-made curriculum," Muryanto said.

USU PR - The Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., became a speaker in the Mandiri Learning Carnival activity which was held at the Mandiri Menara Ballroom, Medan Tuesday (11/2/2021). On this occasion, the Rector of USU delivered material on the Challenges of Being a World Leader of Education in the Digital Era.

"Currently we are in a period of rapid digital development. This certainly has a wide impact on life, including the world of education. This creates a gap between lecturers and students. It happens because of the generational difference between the two," Muryanto Amin said.

He said that the gap occurred because lecturers and students had different habits. Lecturers tend to thrive when digital is not developing as rapidly as it is today, in contrast to students who live in rapid digital development.

"Lecturers experience problems in improving skills using digital technology. It is hoped that lecturers can improve these abilities so that they can be in tune with students. The use of digital technology also encourages transparent academic and non-academic services. Unlike so far, a lot of information seems closed," he said.

In overcoming obstacles in leading universities, especially regarding the gap in digital technology users, Muryanto proposes at least two strategies. According to him, this strategy will touch the basis of better academic services if it can be implemented optimally.

"The pleasure of using digital technology can at least be minimized by conducting a reconstruction of the Tridarma. We must adapt the Tri Dharma of higher education with a series of methods that are integrative, outcome oriented, multiple helix, and tailor-made curriculum," he explained.

In addition, the strategy for acceleration in the digital era is realized by stimulating innovation. This is aimed at transparent academic and non-academic services. It takes the cooperation and contribution of all parties to solve educational problems.

He also mentioned that in the current digital era, there is a shift in the capabilities needed by the industrial world today. This shift shows that many jobs have been lost and are no longer needed. On the other hand, many new jobs have emerged.

"Living in today's digital era requires us to improve our abilities. Various jobs have been lost, while new jobs have emerged. The ability to perform data analysis, for example, is one of the most sought-after jobs today with high wages,” the USU Rector said.

He invited all participants of the activity to maximize the use of digital technology in life. The use of digital technology today can be categorized as something important. Participants who are employees of Bank Mandiri backgrounds are expected to be able to at least improve their abilities in the digital world.

The Mandiri Learning Carnival 2021, which was held by Bank Mandiri, was attended by Regional CEO of Bank Sumut Regional I/Sumatra 1, Lourentius Aris Budiyanto and other speakers. Mandiri Learning Carnival itself is a series of learning for Bank Mandiri employees. Participants came from all regional offices and head office which included learning class sessions and talk shows from several speakers virtually. This activity is expected to produce inspirational and creative things to increase insight and abilities. (©ULC)

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara