MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Visiting FIB And FASILKOM-TI, USU Rector Presents 5 Problems
Visiting FIB and FASILKOM-TI, USU Rector Presents 5 Problems
Published At
24 January 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Visiting FIB and FASILKOM-TI, USU Rector Presents 5 Problems
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 24 January 2023

"International classrooms, so transforming the classroom to no longer be like an old school classroom, but transforming the classroom to be something that could meet various indicators. We have to be able to understand the problem together. From these problems, we will then find solutions. Then we will implement the solution so that the problem becomes a strength for us," explained the USU Rector.

HUMAS USU - Rector of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si visited the Faculty of Cultural Sciences and the Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology on Tuesday, (10/1/2023) as part of Rektor Menyapa program.

During the visit to the Faculty of Cultural Studies and the Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology, the Rector of USU Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si emphasised that there are five problems of institution management system that must be addressed immediately, including learning method, process, faculties soft and hardware, faculty quality, and curriculum.

"International classrooms, so transforming the classroom to no longer be like an old school classroom, but transforming the classroom to be something that could meet various indicators. We have to be able to understand the problem together. From these problems, we will then find solutions. Then we will implement the solution so that the problem becomes a strength for us," explained the USU Rector.

Supporting the Rector's statement, the Dean of the USU Faculty of Cultural Studies, Dr. Dra. T. Thyrhaya Zein, M.A will support the said USU program, which is entrepreneurial university, such as Semester Learning Plan, research and community service, and exploration that leads to entrepreneurship. The Faculty of Cultural Studies will also prepare Outcome Based Education to realise the vision of USU.

"The Faculty of Cultural Sciences is ready to support the rector's programme, in this case, to be an entrepreneurial university. So, of course, it is supported by infrastructures, for example, in the Semester Learning Plan. The faculty of Cultural Studies will certainly prepare itself within the first or second year. The most important thing is to prepare an outcome-based education curriculum," said the Dean of Faculty of Cultural Studies USU.

First Vice Dean of the Faculty of Cultural Studies, Prof. Drs. Mauly Purba, M.A., Ph.D hopes the lecturers will provide feedback and suggestions to improve the unique curriculum that aligns with the Rector's programme.

" We hope that all lecturers will participate in providing feedback, making improvements to the unique special curriculum so that it will be able to support the rector's program for internationalisation," said the Vice Dean I of USU’s Faculty of Cultural Studies.

Warmly welcoming the Rector's visit to Faculty of Computer Science and Information and Technology, the Dean of USU's Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology, Dr Maya Silvi Lydia, M.Sc, said she would invite practitioners to motivate students towards entrepreneurial university. Furthermore, she will also be updating the curriculum to follow the fast-paced changes.

"To be honest, we do have to improve the curriculum because our actual curriculum is the Outcome-Based Education (OBE) curriculum. And we will also revise the curriculum for both undergraduate and postgraduate programs. Therefore, our curriculum will always be dynamically updated to keep up with the changes out there," explained the Dean of Faculty of Communication and Information Technology.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara