MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Prospective Students
Universitas Sumatera Utara
Available Study Programs
There are various choices of study programs and educational levels that you can choose at the Universitas Sumatera Utara. Get information on study programs, tuition fees, and curricula based on the choice of study programs and types of degrees to find the best educational program for you
Vocational Program
Undergraduate Program
Applied Undergraduate Program
Profession Program
Master Program
Doctoral Program
Specialist Program
Faculties and School
Faculty of Medicine
Faculty of Law
Faculty of Agriculture
Faculty of Engineering
Faculty of Economics and Business
Faculty of Dentistry
Faculty of Cultural Science
Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences
Faculty of Social Science and Political Science
Faculty of Public Health
Faculty of Nursing
Faculty of Psychology
Faculty of Pharmacy
Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology
Faculty of Forestry
Faculty of Vocational Education
Join Universitas Sumatera Utara

New student admission for the new academic year is now open. Information on admission pathways, schedules, and online registration for prospective new students can be accessed through the following link.

Visit Admission Website
40+
Student Activity Units

The USU campus offers various platforms for students to engage in activities and learn more outside the classroom. Through student activity units, Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) facilitates students’ hobbies and interests in various fields. Find more opportunities to meet new friends, share new experiences, develop soft skills, interests and skills, as well as build a broad network.

USU student activity units also provide opportunities for students to participate in various events and competitions while expanding their personal network. Participating in student activity units can help students showcase their potential and talents in their respective fields and prepare for future career paths.

See More Student Activity Units
Sports
Martial Arts
Spiritual
Organizational
Science and Technology
Debate and Languages
Music and Literature
Press and Journalism

Scholarships

Discover various scholarships at Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) to ensure that USU is the best option for your education. As a Tri Dharma university, USU provides both internal and external scholarships that students can choose. Our scholarship programs assist high-achieving, financially needy, and talented students in specific fields of education. Types of scholarships offered include achievement-based, need-based, and talent-based as well as government, national, and international scholarships. We encourage students to explore our scholarship offers and take advantage of the opportunity to fund their education at USU.

Adaro Foundation Scholarship 2025
Pelindo Prestasi Scholarship 2025
More Scholarships
General Facilities
Health Facilities
Sport Facilities
Disability Facilities

Campus Facilities

Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) provides various facilities that can be used, especially by students and the academic community, to support learning activities and as a means to support various non-academic activities.

Find Out More about Facilities

Medan City Tourism

Medan is one of the cities on the island of Sumatra which has many beautiful and stunning tourist attractions. Its beauty represents the exotic land of Sumatra. The city of Medan, known as Lake Toba, offers unique tourist attractions that are different from the others. The identity of the city of Medan is reflected in its natural and cultural wealth. Explore the city of Medan and discover popular attractions around it.

Other Tourisms
Aksara Park
Katamso Land
Tjong Yong Hian Garden
Indonesian Plantation Museum
Avros Park

Campus Visits

Campus visits are intended for prospective students of Universitas Sumatera Utara. You will have the opportunity to see firsthand the atmosphere of our campus, including the facilities, students, and campus life.

Start Visiting

Frequently Asked Questions

What facilities can be seen during the campus visit?
In the USU campus area, there are many public facilities that can be seen, including sports facilities and academic facilities.
Are there any guidelines or rules to be followed during the campus visit?
It is recommended to always ask the academic community and maintain proper behavior within the campus area.
Can I meet with lecturers or students at a specific faculty during the campus visit?
During the campus visit, you can meet with specific lecturers or students outside class hours.
What is the registration procedure for new students at Universitas Sumatera Utara?
Registration information can be accessed on https://penerimaan.usu.ac.id.

Access and Transportation

Students from outside Medan can take a flight to Kualanamu Airport and continue their journey to the USU campus by taxi or bus. Students can also take a train and continue their journey using public transportation.

Students can use buses to reach USU by going through the nearest bus terminal and getting off at Amplas Terminal. After that, students can continue their journey to the USU campus using public transportation, which takes approximately 30 minutes.

Students can reach the location of Universitas Sumatera Utara by taking a flight. After arriving at Kualanamu Airport, the journey can be continued by taking a taxi or bus, which takes approximately 60 minutes.

Students can use a ship and dock at Belawan Port. Then, the journey can be continued by public transportation or bus to the location of USU, which takes approximately 120 minutes.

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara