MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Dentistry
Specialist Program In Periodontics
Spesialist-1 Program
Specialist Program in Periodontics
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Specialist Program in Periodontics is a study program that explores the science and management of periodontal disorders in a promotive, preventive, curative, and rehabilitative manner in dentistry. Periodontal disorders include disorders of the supporting tissues of the teeth, such as gums, bones, and periodontal ligaments. The main goal of this program is to maintain dental health and restore the function and health of periodontal tissues.

The vision of this study program is "In 2027, to become a Specialist Program in Periodontics that excels in the field of periodontal tissue regeneration technology based on natural resources and art and has a global outlook." Graduates of the USU Specialist Program in Periodontics are expected to play a role in improving overall dental and periodontal health while still paying attention to the sustainability of the global environment. Students who complete this study program will earn the title of Periodontia Specialist (Sp.Perio.).

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

ppdgsperiodonsia@gmail.com

Specialist Program in Periodontics

Accredited Unggul

0376/LAM-PTKes/Akr/Spe/V/2023

Vision of Specialist Program in Periodontics

Become a Specialist Program in Periodontics that excels in periodontal tissue regeneration technology based on natural resources and art and has a global outlook in 2027.

Mission of Specialist Program in Periodontics

Education

Carrying out education based on national standards and oriented to the development of science and technology of periodontal tissue regeneration, with a global outlook and BINTANG character and according to the needs of the community in periodontia.

Research

Carrying out research in periodontal tissue regeneration technology based on natural resources and art by prioritizing local wisdom. Producing scientific papers of national and international standards based on evidence-based dentistry.

Community Service

Carrying out dedication and services in periodontia by disseminating research results in meeting the community's needs to improve quality of life.

Collaboration

Collaborate with other Higher Education Institutions, Hospitals, and industries at national and international levels to improve the capabilities of teaching staff and students in the scientific and technological fields.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Periodontia medicaments

Periodontal Pathology

Manifestation of Systemic Diseases in Periodontal Tissues

Epidemiology

Contact Us
Specialist Program in Periodontics
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jalan Alumni No. 2 Kampus USU, Medan, Sumatera Utara 20155

(061) - 8216131

ppdgsperiodonsia@gmail.com

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara