MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Social Science And Political Science
Master's Program In Public Administration Science
Master Program
Public Administration Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

As an advanced level of education from the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Undergraduate Program in Public Administration Science, the Master's Program in Public Administration Science is an educational unit that studies the process of implementing or implementing administrative regulations issued by the legislative, executive, and judicial bodies.

Our study program is staffed with the best individuals with integrity and high dedication to teaching. Assisted by optimal facilities and infrastructure, the Master's Program in Public Administration Science is highly committed to creating an effective and efficient learning atmosphere. Our graduates have broad career prospects in public administration, such as political members, activists of non-governmental organizations, researchers, and teaching staff.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

fisip@usu.ac.id

Master's Program in Public Administration Science

Accredited Good

No. 4845/SK/BAN-PT/Ak/M/VII/2024

Vision of Master's Program in Public Administration Science

Becoming a Center for the Development of Excellent and Highly Competitive Studies and Research in Public Administration and Policy in Southeast Asia

Mission of Master's Program in Public Administration Science

Competitiveness and Integrity

Organize competitive and competitive higher education with integrity in Administration, Policy Science, and good governance.

Research

Carry out strategic research in Administration and Public Policy and collaborative local governance for the development of science and the nation's progress.

Community Service

Perform community service to realize a highly competitive society and local government in the fields of Administrative Science and Public Policy, and responsive governance.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Contact Us
Master's Program in Public Administration Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Dr. A. Sofian No.1A, Padang Bulan, Kec. Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20222

(+62)-618211965

fisip@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara