MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Commemorates National Teacher's Day, Emphasizes The Role Of Teachers As Agents Of Civilization.
USU Commemorates National Teacher's Day, Emphasizes the Role of Teachers as Agents of Civilization.
Published At
26 November 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
USU Commemorates National Teacher's Day, Emphasizes the Role of Teachers as Agents of Civilization.
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Tuesday, 26 November 2024

“Teachers play a role in educating students so that they have intelligence, skills, and noble character,” said the USU Rector.

USU PR - With the theme “Great Teachers Strong Indonesia,” in commemoration of National Teachers' Day, the Universitas Sumatera Utara held a ceremony in the rector's bureau yard on Monday, (25/11/2024).

 

USU Rector, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos, M.Si delivered a speech by the Minister of Primary and Secondary Education, Abdul Mu'ti, who said the theme had three meanings. First, the affirmation of the meaning and position of teachers in accordance with the Teacher and Lecturer Law No. 14/2005. Second, teachers not only act as learning agents but also agents of civilization, and third, teachers determine the quality of human resources as the nation's generation.

 

“Teachers play a role in educating students so that they have intelligence, skills, and noble character,” said the Rector.

 

In line with that, the Rector said that the Ministry of Education also continues to strive to improve the quality of teachers through three priority programs, namely fulfilling teacher qualifications, training to improve competencies in academics and entrepreneurship, and improving teacher welfare. He also emphasized the importance of protecting teachers from all forms of violence and intimidation, as well as the application of restorative justice in solving problems in education.

 

“The Ministry is also trying to ensure the security of teachers so that they can work calmly and free from all forms of intimidation and acts of violence by anyone,” said the Rector.

 

On another occasion, the Dean of the Faculty of Social and Political Sciences (FISIP), Dr. Hatta Ridho S.Sos., MSP said that any profession that is being undertaken today cannot be separated from the services of teachers, who from an early age provide knowledge to the nation's generation.

 

“This means that whatever profession we are now living in cannot be separated from the services of teachers, both teachers since we began to be able to read and write and continue to the next level of education,” said the Dean of FISIP.

 

Furthermore, he emphasized the importance of transformation in learning methods. With technological advances and the interaction of students with gadgets, education must be able to adapt quickly. One of them is by implementing Outcome-Based Education (OBE), which not only focuses on theory, but also on practical aspects that are relevant to the needs of the times.

 

“So the class is inclusive and not dominated by the teacher. So we must also measure how the students have understood, not with the CPL CPMK,” said the Dean of FISIP.

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara