MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
34th PIMNAS: Diversity, Technology And Science
34th PIMNAS: Diversity, Technology and Science
Published At
10 November 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
34th PIMNAS: Diversity, Technology and Science
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 10 November 2021

Multi-ethnic dances were the opening ceremony for the 34th National Student Scientific Week (PIMNAS) which was held at the Central Administration Bureau of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) on Tuesday, October 26, 2021, evening.

USU PR - Multi-ethnic dances were the opening ceremony for the 34th National Student Scientific Week (PIMNAS) which was held at the Central Administration Bureau of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) on Tuesday, October 26, 2021, evening.

In front of academics from various universities from Sabang to Merauke, the students who performed the multi-ethnic dance were able to amaze the entire audience.

Not only treating the longing to see performances, but the cultural performances displayed prove that North Sumatra can be called "miniature Indonesia" considering that various tribes live side by side in this province.

The USU Rector, vice Rectors, university secretaries and a number of attendees who were present on the opening night looked stunning wearing traditional clothes from various regions, not only that the "hombo batu" performance or stone jump from South Nias Regency became the main attraction at the moment of that scientific week.

Miniature stone jumps as high as more than one and a half meters were able to be jumped across by the youth who displayed the cultural attractions. The shouts and applause from the participants became a special encouragement for the performers of the activity.

Not just with cultural performances, the "mapping show" seemed to conjure up the audience not to blink their eyes, it's not exaggerating when those audience said "wow.. amazing".

The show full of technological sophistication proves that the Universitas Sumatera Utara is capable and ready to organize national and even international events.

If we look further, the cultural performances are even more interesting when combined with sophisticated technology, sparkling lights, and booming "sounds" to add to the excitement of the opening night of this student science week.

The same thing may also be felt by the audience who watched the live broadcast through the Youtube channel that had been prepared by the committee.

Everything that has been described has not been finished, the day before the opening of the PIMNAS the judges were invited to see firsthand the splendor of the Maimun Palace. The Deli Sultanate Palace, which was built on August 26, 1888, became one of a series of activities that were packaged in a "graceful night".

The judges, USU leaders and invited guests were beautiful and handsome dressed in typical Malay Deli clothes, not a few of the judges took pictures with the background of the Sultan of Deli throne. Once again, a series of friendly evening events were also shown on the Youtube channel "USU Official Social Network", a blend of art, culture and surely with technology.

Never ending story of the 34th National Student Scientific Week (PIMNAS), a line of hundreds of posters by PIMNAS participants were also exhibited at the USU Pancasila Building, from corner to corner "partition" posters filled with colorful colors adorn the Pancasila building which was once known as the Pendopo USU.

Students from various universities were enthusiastic to see the array of exhibitions presented, knowledge was poured into text and visuals became very interesting for those who saw it.

The series after series of the 34th PIMNAS will continue to be remembered by the audience.

Diversity, Technology and Science are united in the 34th PIMNAS.

*The author is a USU Public Relations Officer

(©ULC)

Author: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang, Muhammad Andriansyah - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara