MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
FH USU And Kyushu University Establish Scholarship Cooperation, Supported By Japanese Consulate
FH USU and Kyushu University Establish Scholarship Cooperation, Supported by Japanese Consulate
Published At
04 September 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
FH USU and Kyushu University Establish Scholarship Cooperation, Supported by Japanese Consulate
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Wednesday, 04 September 2024

“We really hope that we can continue to socialize this information to alumni and also to the staff of the Faculty of Law in the hope that many of the USU Faculty of Law alumni will take the opportunity to submit scholarship applications at the Faculty of Law of Kyushu University, explained the Dean of FH ”

USU PR - The Faculty of Law (FH) of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) has taken a new step in expanding educational opportunities for its students through international collaboration with Kyushu University, Japan. This visit took place on Thursday, (29/08/2024) in the DPF Room of FH USU.

 

During this visit, the event included a presentation on the Young Leader's Program (YLP) in Law scholarship offer from Kyushu University for the master's program at the Faculty of Law as well as the promotion of the Monbukagakusho/MEXT scholarship from the Japanese consulate in Medan which was attended by the Japanese Consul for Culture and Education Public Relations Division, Mr. Furunobu Koichi.

 

Since 2021, the Dean of FH USU, Dr. Mahmul Siregar, S.H., M.Hum, said that the Faculty of Law USU has been collaborating with Kyushu University, thanks to the initiative of Prof. Dr. Ningrum Natasya Sirait, S.H., M.Li from FH USU, who collaborated with Prof. Steven Van Uytsel from Kyushu University. Through this collaboration, Kyushu University offers scholarships to FH USU alumni and staff to continue their studies in a master of law program in Japan.

 

The Dean of FH USU hopes that information about this scholarship can be widely spread and attract the attention of alumni and faculty staff to submit scholarship applications at Kyushu University. Hopefully, this initiative will open more opportunities for Indonesian students to study in Japan and contribute as leaders in the field of law.

 

“We really hope that we can continue to socialize this information to the alumni and also to the law faculty staff in the hope that the USU law faculty alumni (many) will take the opportunity to submit scholarship applications at Kyushu University Faculty of Law,” explained the Dean of Faculty of Law.

 

On the same occasion, the Dean of Faculty of Law said that the agenda of this visit also included a dialog with the Vice Rector III of the Universitas Sumatera Utara. The discussion aimed to explore opportunities for further cooperation between the two universities, particularly in the field of law. The dialogue is expected to strengthen academic relations and open doors for future joint initiatives.

 

“Our hope, of course, is that there will be cooperation between the Universitas Sumatera Utara and Kyushu University, especially of course the Faculty of Law. That is our hope,” said Dean of Faculty of Law.

 

Mr. Furunobu Koichi gave full support and said the purpose of this activity was to provide information to students that there are many opportunities to study in Japan through scholarships for various sciences. Therefore, he hopes that students will make the most of the opportunity.

 

“I hope that there will be maximum number of students who are interested and interested in utilizing scholarship opportunities in Japan,” said Furunobu Koichi.

 

On another occasion, Prof. Steven also revealed that so far it has been quite difficult to bring students from Indonesia to Japan. Therefore, through cooperation with USU he hopes to attract more young students from Indonesia to study at Kyushu University and become leaders in their respective fields when they return to their homeland.

 

“So far, we have not been able to bring in students from Indonesia, but by seeking cooperation with this university, I hope that in the future, we will get young students to study at our university,” Steven said.

 

With the support of the Japanese consulate and the initiative of both universities, it is hoped that this cooperation will further strengthen the academic relationship between USU and Kyushu University, and provide great benefits for the development of legal education on both sides.

 

 

News
SDGs 4
SDGs
SDGs 16
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara