MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Public Health
Undergraduate Program In Nutrition
Undergraduate Program
Nutrition
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Undergraduate Program in Nutrition of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) has produced outstanding graduates in the field of nutrition science who are spread throughout Indonesia. The main focus of the Undergraduate Program in Nutrition is to learn the importance of nutrition in human life, the relationship between diet and lifestyle, understanding of nutritional intake, nutrition science, and healthy eating patterns.

Taught by experts in the field of nutrition with national teaching certificates and supported by an integrated curriculum, we have a deep commitment to providing our students with an interactive education and learning experience. We hope that our students can be the best, competent, and able to compete with the times both on a national and international scale. The Bachelor of Nutrition degree opens up opportunities for our students to pursue careers as nutrition consultants, both in the fitness and culinary fields.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

s1gizi@usu.ac.id

Undergraduate Program in Nutrition

Accredited Good

No. 0143/LAM-PTKes/Akr.PB/Sar/VII/2023

Vision of Undergraduate Program in Nutrition

To become an Excellent Undergraduate Program in Nutrition in the field of Tropical Health Nutrition at the National Level.

Mission of Undergraduate Program in Nutrition

Technology-Based Education

To organize education that is of quality, responsive, innovative, independent, and based on modern learning technology.

Scientific Research

To organize scientific research to develop tropical health nutrition.

Community Service

To organize community service to enhance the nutritional status of communities in tropical regions.

Expanding Cooperation

To expand cooperation networks with national and international universities, governments, industries, professions, and organizations to support the quality of education, research, and community service.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Contact Us
Undergraduate Program in Nutrition
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Universitas No. 21, Kampus USU Medan, 20155

(061) - 8213221

s1gizi@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara