MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
The Ecumenical Easter Celebration Of USU: Living In Peace
The Ecumenical Easter Celebration of USU: Living in Peace
Published At
16 May 2024
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
The Ecumenical Easter Celebration of USU: Living in Peace
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 16 May 2024

"Happy Easter 2024, peace and prosperity to all friends. According to the message and meaning of Easter 2024, live as instruments of truth," said Ir. Luhut.

USU PR — The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Student Hall was filled with solemnity during the Ecumenical Easter Celebration of USU in 2024. This celebration depicted the spirit of togetherness and tolerance in commemorating this significant event for Christians within the campus community.

 

Social activities were also part of the Easter celebration at USU. In the spirit of sharing and caring, both the organizers and participants actively engaged in social activities. Despite being in the midst of semester exams and the fasting month for Muslims, enthusiasm for the Easter celebration remained high. This demonstrated unity and solidarity in observing worship and celebrating this sacred moment.

 

Dr. Ir. Luhut Sihombing M.P., the Vice Rector V for Asset Management and Business Affairs of USU, delivered a speech regarding the significance of the 2024 USU Easter celebration. He emphasized the importance of peace and truth as spiritual principles that should be firmly upheld in everyday life. Because peace and prosperity will accompany living in truth, in line with the message of Easter this year.

 

"Happy Easter 2024, peace and prosperity to all friends. According to the message and meaning of Easter 2024, live as instruments of truth," said Ir. Luhut.

 

At the same event, Prof. Dr. Eng. Himsar Ambarita S.T., M.T., who acted as the Chairperson of the USU Christian Feast Day Committee (PHBK), expressed gratitude to the law faculty, which served as the organizing committee for the Easter celebration. In his speech, he emphasized the importance of the event's success in sharing and celebrating important moments in the Christian faith.

 

"The PHBK expresses gratitude to the Law Faculty for organizing the Easter celebration. Our response is that this event was successful in sharing and also in celebrating very well," said Prof. Himsar.

 

Prof. Dr. Ningrum Natasya, S.H., M.Li., as the Chairperson of the Easter Committee from the faculty, discussed the rotation of committee members among faculties, which also allowed for interfaith cooperation in organizing the Easter celebration. This underlined USU's commitment to diversity and tolerance among religious communities.

 

"On behalf of the committee, we want to express our gratitude for the support and assistance, and hopefully, the upcoming Christmas and Easter celebrations will run even better than what we have organized," hoped Prof. Ningrum.

 

Vrede Johannes Tua Manalu, as the Chairperson of the Easter Committee from the student body, expressed hope that this tradition of celebration would continue and improve every year. This moment was seen as an opportunity to strengthen brotherhood and unity amidst diversity.

 

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: Dr. Ir. Luhut Sihombing, MP - Wakil Rektor V USU

Photographer: Istimewa - Istimewa

News
SDGs
SDGs 17
Campus Life
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara