MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Medicine
Specialist-1 Program In Cardiovascular Medicine
Spesialist-1 Program
Cardiovascular Medicine
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Specialist Program in Cardiovascular Medicine of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is a study program that studies specialized medical skills focusing on teaching cardiology and vascular medicine.

This study program is committed to continuously developing the quality of education with the help of expert, capable, and experienced teaching staff to realize prospective doctor graduates who can diagnose and treat various heart diseases skillfully, with integrity, and responsibility. Students who have completed this study program will hold the Cardiovascular Medicine Specialist (Sp.J.P.) degree.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

kardiologi_usu@yahoo.com

Specialist-1 Program in Cardiovascular Medicine

Accredited Excellent

No. 0854/LAM-PTKes/Akr/Spe/X/2022

Vision of Specialist-1 Program in Cardiovascular Medicine

To become an education center for Cardiovascular Medicine that is of quality with national standards and international competitiveness by 2024 by enhancing the focus on inflammatory diseases, tropical infections and other infections, clinical cardiology and oncology in the cardiovascular field, as well as cardiovascular disease prevention and rehabilitation.

Mission of Specialist-1 Program in Cardiovascular Medicine

Quality Education

To organize quality education to enhance knowledge and skills for specialist doctors in cardiology and progress towards higher academic levels in accordance with scientific advancements and societal demands, particularly in the fields of inflammatory diseases, tropical infections and other infections, clinical cardiology and oncology in the cardiovascular field, as well as cardiovascular disease prevention and rehabilitation.

Research

To organize quality research in the field of cardiovascular medicine in an independent manner to develop solutions for cardiovascular disease problems in Indonesia, particularly in the fields of inflammatory diseases, tropical infections and other infections, clinical cardiology and oncology in the cardiovascular field, as well as cardiovascular disease prevention and rehabilitation.

Community Service

To organize community service in the field of cardiovascular medicine to develop and implement heart disease services in a thorough, comprehensive, integrated, and sustainable manner, with a focus on identifying risk factors for cardiovascular disease prevention and rehabilitation.

Cooperation

To establish cooperation, especially with professional organizations, network hospitals, alumni associations, Heart Foundations and other Foundations, with the goal of expanding the implementation scope of the Three Pillars of Higher Education.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Clinical Cardiology

Invasive and Non-Surgical Intervention

Pediatric and Congenital Heart Disease

Intensive Cardiology

Arrhythmia

Vascular Medicine

Prevention and Cardiovascular Rehabilitation

Non-Invasive Echocardiography and Cardiovascular Imaging

Contact Us
Specialist-1 Program in Cardiovascular Medicine
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Dr. Mansyur No 5 Kampus USU Medan 20155

(061) - 8210555

kardiologi_usu@yahoo.com

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara