MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Make Sure No Students Fail College Due To Tuition Fees
USU Make Sure No Students Fail College Due to Tuition Fees
Published At
05 June 2024
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Make Sure No Students Fail College Due to Tuition Fees
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 05 June 2024

The ease of access to communication opened as wide as possible to students or parents regarding UKT is only to ensure that the UKT implemented at USU has fulfilled equitable aspects and, most importantly, to ensure that no new USU students fail to study because they cannot afford UKT.

USU PR—Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) strongly commits to helping every student continue to study at the oldest campus on the island of Sumatra. Therefore, USU always opens a space for discussion and finds solutions if students have difficulty paying a single tuition fee (UKT).

This commitment was reaffirmed by USU Rector Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., in response to media reports that said there were USU students who had to bury their dreams of studying at USU because they could not afford the UKT.

“Improvement of re-registration data specifically for determining UKT has been carried out with the principle of justice. USU is committed and ensures that no students will fail to study due to inability to pay UKT,” said Prof. Mury in his written statement on Monday (May 27, 2024).

The Rector also hopes that the media can convey accurate information to avoid misinterpretation from the public about the fair UKT policy. Regarding information on USU students threatened with failing college because they get full UKT, the rector firmly stated that the student data concerned can still be adjusted as long as the data submitted is appropriate.

The Rector also hopes that the media can convey accurate information to avoid misinterpretation from the public about the fair UKT policy. Regarding information on USU students threatened with failing college because they get full UKT, the rector firmly stated that the student data concerned can still be adjusted as long as the data submitted is appropriate.

“Adjustment of student data will continue. The USU UKT verification team continues to work on making data adjustments. If the data submitted is correct, then there is no need to worry that the verification team will check, and if it is true that they cannot afford the UKT, it will be changed,” said the rector.

Previously, it was widely reported that new USU student Naffa Zahra Muthmainnah, who graduated from the Arabic Literature Study Program, Faculty of Cultural Sciences (FIB), chose not to continue studying at USU because she could not afford the full UKT of IDR 8.5 million. It is known that Naffa comes from a modest family.

For information, based on the results of the USU verifier team's checking of the UKT registration system, Naffa Zahra Muthmainnah entered the wrong data in the UKT submission form. She chose Full UKT, so the system automatically categorized her into UKT 8, IDR 8.5 million.

The Rector had previously explained in an open dialog with student representatives who are USU Student Executive Board (BEM) members that such errors can occur. Therefore, the rector extended the UKT payment period to June 5, 2024, so the UKT run by USU is truly transparent and fair.

USU is also still opening helpdesk services related to UKT and socializing complaint mechanisms through social media, such as Instagram @official.usu, by listing contact persons so that students or parents/guardians can be well served. The Rector has also invited BEM administrators to collaborate regarding data verification of new students whose UKT is claimed to be unjust.

The ease of access to communication opened as wide as possible to students or parents regarding UKT is only to ensure that the UKT implemented at USU has fulfilled equitable aspects and, most importantly, to ensure that no new USU students fail to study because they cannot afford UKT.

As additional data, since the opening of the UKT appeal, the USU verifier team has adjusted the UKT for 253 new students. With details,

Level UKT 8 (full) has 23 students, level UKT 8 (equitable) has 56 students, there are 34 students in UKT 7, 46 students in UKT 6, 51 students in UKT 5, 29 students in UKT 4, and seven students in UKT 3.

Naffa Thanked the Rector

USU student Naffa Zahra Muthmainnah expressed her gratitude to USU Rector Prof. Muryanto Amin, who immediately addressed her mistake when filling out the UKT registration. The Rector immediately met with Naffa and then asked Naffa to report to the UKT helpdesk at the USU Rector's Bureau, 1st Floor.

“I didn't expect to meet the Rector directly. I was also encouraged to continue studying at USU, and the UKT can be adjusted to the ability of Naffa's family,” said Naffa.

When meeting with the rector, Naffa also explained her ignorance of registering UKT at USU.

“So I asked my brother for help (filling in the UKT data); when there was a question about whether I wanted an equitable UKT or a full UKT, my brother immediately filled in the full UKT because we both didn't know,” said Naffa.

Naffa also admitted that she still wanted to study at USU and explained to the rector her family's economic background: Her father had died, and her mother did not work. The biological brother, who is now the backbone, will bear the cost of daily life and tuition.

Hearing the story from Naffa, Prof. Muryanto Amin encouraged Naffa always to be enthusiastic about studying at USU. The Rector also explained that the UKT adjustment process is still being carried out, meaning that it is not because of an incident like Naffa.

“Once again, if there are USU students who are constrained by UKT, USU ensures that it opens space for transparency and that the communication space is opened as wide as possible,” he said.

Author: bambang riyanto - staf humas

Interviewee: Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos, M.Si - Rektor USU

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Staf Humas

News
carousel
Headline
SDGs 4
SDGs
SDGs 1
Education
SDGs Headline
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara