MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
The USU Rector Motivates Students To Continue Study Abroad
The USU Rector Motivates Students to Continue Study Abroad
Published At
04 October 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
The USU Rector Motivates Students to Continue Study Abroad
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 04 October 2021

MEDAN – USU PUBLIC RELATIONS: Continuing education abroad has been a scourge for some students. Many of them feel that continuing studies abroad is like a deep roast from the fire. According to the Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., this must be eliminated immediately and start self-motivation to be able to continue studying abroad.

The message was conveyed when opening the Webinar activity entitled Getting a Scholarship in France for Your Masters and Doctorate Degree “How To Do It” on Thursday (9/23/2021) online. The activity was held in collaboration with th USU Office of International Affairs with the French Institution, Campus France and the Indonesian Institute of Francais.

“The information we received today about studying in France gives motivation to be more confident in continuing our studies abroad. As students, we must transform to be better,” the USU Rector said.

He cites USU’s slogan, Transformation Towards the Ultimate as a spirit for the better. Transformation must be carried out in every aspect of life, including the thought that studying abroad is not a frightening specter, instead, it is something that can be achieved. By studying abroad, new experiences and broader insights for students will be provided. According to him, this knowledge is needed to add to the scientific treasures in Indonesia.

By studying abroad, we will find different cultures, both from social culture, even to learning culture. Of course it will be different how the lecturers there provide learning with the lecturers here. That experience is very expensive and valuable," he said.

Muryanto Amin added that this experience will enable students to innovate in Indonesia. Continuing to study abroad is a step to be able to devote yourself to Indonesia after completing your studies. For this reason, he encourages students to dare to continue their studies abroad.

“There are many scholarships that can be obtained to study abroad. By studying abroad, the knowledge gained there can be applied after returning to Indonesia. Don't be arrogant if you are abroad, but instead devote yourself to helping the progress of the nation and solving community problems," Muryanto said.

He also appreciated the activity as a symbol of strengthening Indonesia's relations with France. He hopes that French universities can cooperate with USU. Even though the activity was carried out online, he still advised the participants to be enthusiastic.

Also attending the event were the Director of Alliance Franaise Medan Jade Granier, Coordinator of Higher Education Cooperation, Institut Franais d'Indonésie, French Embassy to Indonesia and Timor Leste, Sylvain Lelong Lacroix, Assistant Attache for Science and Technology Cooperation, Institut Français d'Indonésie, Diah Dharmapatni, Person in Charge of Campus France Medan, Nur Hidayah, Head and Secretary of USU's KUI, lecturers and students at USU. (RR/©ULC)

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Rizki Hakim Lubis - PR

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara