MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Public Lecture Of The Governor Of Lemhanas RI Discusses Global Defense
Public Lecture of the Governor of Lemhanas RI Discusses Global Defense
Published At
25 September 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Public Lecture of the Governor of Lemhanas RI Discusses Global Defense
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Sunday, 25 September 2022

"The first two things are optimism, in the future we are at the right momentum for Indonesia to jump into a power in the world economy, and also the intention when we focus on being able to adopt a blue economy, green economy, digital transformation," explained the Governor of Lemhanas.

HUMAS - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held a General Lecturer Leadership General Lecturer Series which is one of a series of activities leading to the peak of USU's 70th Anniversary. Inviting the Governor of the National Resilience Institute (Lemhanas) Andi Widjajanto as a speaker for the first session of the public lecture, the activity took place at the USU Auditorium on Friday (09/09/2022).

Carrying the theme "Strengthening Global Defense and Indonesia's Economic Awakening as the G20 Presidency", USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si said it was presented for students and all participants to understand strategic aspects in strengthening global defense and efforts to significantly improve the economy. So that its implementation is expected to inspire students to be able to adjust their will and further activities.

The Rector explained that in relation to the G20 Presidency and 70th Anniversary, USU has prepared many discussions to welcome the G20 and students are expected to have a willingness to form regarding Indonesia's role and function in the movement.

"We have made many discussions to welcome the G20, and students are expected to have a willingness to form opinions about the G20, what is the function of Indonesia and what links they will make to it," he said.

The Governor of Lemhanas Andi Widjajanto conveyed several important points, including about Indonesia's optimism to become a force in the world economy with the momentum of the G20 then about anticipating economic policies because Indonesia has gone through critical points in the world such as the recovery of Covid, the Russia-Ukraine conflict, and tensions between the United States and China.

"The first two things are optimism, in the future we are at the right momentum for Indonesia to jump into a power in the world economy, and also the intention when we focus on being able to adopt a blue economy, green economy, digital transformation," explained the Governor of Lemhanas.

The material in this public lecture is very important to be given to students because, according to Andi Widjajanto, this public lecture has a vision for a career in the next 20 years because there are global challenges and technological developments in various fields.

 

"So that students have an idea, if they study and have a career in the next 20 years, their challenge will be global challenges regarding following technological developments in various fields," he said. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - HUMAS

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsyad Mulyadi - HUMAS

News
Education
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara