MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
7th Anniversary Of The Faculty Of Forestry, Rector: Leadership Performance Is Digitally Assessed
7th Anniversary of the Faculty of Forestry, Rector: Leadership Performance is Digitally Assessed
Published At
05 November 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
7th Anniversary of the Faculty of Forestry, Rector: Leadership Performance is Digitally Assessed
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 05 November 2021

Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara Dr. Muryanto Amin, who was present in the discussion session, emphasized that every performance will be assessed digitally. Starting next year, every 3 months, the progress of FHut performance from the contracts that have been signed will be seen. For example, how many FHut graduates have found work after graduation during the last 3 years.

USU PR - The Faculty of Forestry (FHut) celebrates its 7th Anniversary by holding a series of happy riding events, planting trees as well as getting used to being able to do activities in the new room that has been built on Campus II USU Kwala Bekala.

Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Dr. Muryanto Amin, who was present in the discussion session, emphasized that every performance will be assessed digitally.

Starting next year, every 3 months, the progress of FHut's performance from the contracts that have been signed will be seen. For example, how many FHut graduates have found work after graduation during the last 3 years.

"This can be seen from the data from the tracer study. If it does, great. Those that have not been fulfilled will be warned," said the Rector.

The Rector also discussed the planning for the use of the Kwala Bekala Campus. FHut is targeted to relocate to the Kwala Bekala Campus in December.

With a building that has international standards, the facilities at USU's Campus 2 will continue to be equipped. For example, it will be built such as a pavilion or open space using glass, making public kitchens, to other supporting buildings that will stand in the next few years.

The Rector appealed to the Vice Deans of the Faculty of Forestry to immediately discuss the scheduling of lectures so that they can immediately arrange accommodation matters. The USU Cross Bus (Linus) will operate from the Padang Bulan Campus to drop-off lecturers and students to the Kwala Bekala campus.

“Linus will be arranged when to pick up and drop him here which will be done alternately. Regarding internet facilities, installation has started since September. It is estimated that it will be completed in December or January next year,” explained Muryanto.

In addition, the Rector also discussed the fulfillment of lecturers and the addition of students who require careful planning and schemes. "If we add students, we have to make plans to add lecturers for the development of the FHut. The dean must do the planning, starting from the finances,” he said.

The Rector hopes that in the 7th anniversary celebration, the Dean, Head of Study Programs and Lecturers can work together to produce superior FHUt among faculties at USU to Indonesia, carry out productivity in accordance with work contracts, and have good research and publications.

“Students can also participate in PKM more, so that they can achieve and make FHut proud. Happy birthday, I hope you can give the best for the USU campus. Can feel at home to study at the new campus," Muryanto hopes.

On the occasion, the Dean of the Faculty of Forestry, Dr. Rudi Hartono, S.Hut., M.Si also expressed his hope that FHut can become one of the faculties to be reckoned with at USU with high productivity in the fields of research, service and publications.

"Studentship will also increase. It is hoped that in the future, PKM will be taken by many FHut students," said Rudi.

Rudi added that lecturers and students will be accustomed to adapting because in January it is planned to start lectures at the new campus. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - PR

News
Dies Natalis
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara