MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
The 7th ELTIKOM Conference Of The Faculty Of Engineering
The 7th ELTIKOM Conference of the Faculty of Engineering
Published At
29 December 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
The 7th ELTIKOM Conference of the Faculty of Engineering
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 29 December 2023

I hope all participants will actively discuss their passion, trends, experiences, and current issues in the field of electrical telecommunication and computer engineering," said Prof. Poppy.

USU PR- The Department of Electrical Engineering (DTE) at the Faculty of Engineering (FT), Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), organized ELTIKOM 2023, The 7th International Conference on Electrical, Telecommunication, and Computer Engineering with the theme "Sustainable and Resilient Communities with Smart Technologies." The event took place in a hybrid format at the International Smart Classroom of the Electrical Engineering Department on Wednesday-Thursday (12/13-14/ 2023)

This conference is a routine event organized by DTE USU. This 7th edition is always attended by foreign countries such as the Netherlands, Japan, Vietnam, Malaysia, the Philippines, and others.

In her welcoming speech, Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan, S.Si., M.Si., Apt., the Vice Rector III for Research, Community Service, and Cooperation of Universitas Sumatera Utara, expressed her hope that participants would actively discuss their passion, trends, experiences, and current issues in the field of electrical telecommunication and computer engineering.

"I hope all participants will actively discuss their passion, trends, experiences, and current issues in the field of electrical telecommunication and computer engineering," said Prof. Poppy.

Fakhruddin Rizal Batubara S.T., M.T.I., the chairperson of the organizing committee for this event, mentioned that the purpose of this conference is to support the vision of the Rector to enhance USU's international reputation and encourage publications from lecturers to go international with the presence of participants from several foreign countries.

"The purpose of this conference is to support the Rector's vision of enhancing USU's international reputation. With this conference, we can encourage our lecturers' publications to go international, and we can also increase our presence internationally because this conference is also attended by participants from other countries," he said.

Fakhruddin Rizal Batubara ST., M.T.I. also hoped that all objectives would be achieved and that this conference could contribute to going international and assist lecturers in publishing their scientific works globally.

"My hope is that the goals are achieved in line with the earlier objectives. Whether we become more recognized internationally through this conference and our lecturers are also assisted in publishing their scientific works internationally," he concluded.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Education
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara