MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Immediately Performs Rating Evaluation And Improvements
USU Immediately Performs Rating Evaluation and Improvements
Published At
02 August 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Immediately Performs Rating Evaluation and Improvements
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 02 August 2021

USU PUBLIC RELATION-MEDAN: University of North Sumatra continues to move quickly in implementing the Independent Learning-Independent Campus (MBKM) program. For this reason, USU Chancellor Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., requested that all study programs immediately create a new curriculum for the implementation of MBKM within USU.

This was stated by Dr. Muryanto during his working visit to the USU Faculty of Pharmacy some time ago.He hopes that the study program will quickly adapt and respond to all MBKM programslaunched by the Ministry of Education and Culture.

“If we can't adapt to the changes that occur, then we will be left behind.The Merdeka Campus has been researched since 2010-2011.It has only been implemented for two years but the development is extraordinary because it is supported by the Industrial Revolution,” Dr. Muryanto said.

Apart from the Merdeka Learning program at the Merdeka Campus, the USU Chancellor continued, what is no less important is the evaluation and immediate improvement of various USU deficiencies in the assessments made by variousranking achievements.

"For the ranking of universities, we hope that all leaders of faculties, study programs and institutions at USU are serious about breaking into the top 10 in cluster one.The lowest value in the assessment must be analyzed for its causes and immediately repaired, "he added.

He also reminded to focus on student achievement and complete all the data, as well as for tracer studies.“Trace studies are important.The data must be continuously updated regularly so that it is not left behind.Good activities are maintained, while those that are not good are improved and includedin the 2022 RKA," he said.

In order to realize the internationalization of higher education, the Chancellor of USU also emphasized the importance of concentrating on recruiting lecturers from practitioners or professionals.As well as increasing the number of foreign students, foreign lecturers and foreign staff.It is no less important to educate the education staff they have to be able to work in new work patterns, by improving existing skills in line with the needs in the current digitalization era, and changing the paradigm of thinking at work.Given that education personnel have a significant role in supporting the progress of USU.

“Academic Staff is a bridge that connects universities, faculties and study programs.So we need a fast, agile and precise technique in translating all the wishes of the leadership and supporting the entire performance of theuniversity," the Chancellor said.

In addition, research and publications must also continue to be improved in terms of quality and quantity, supported by a downstream research product program that involves the industry so that the product can be enjoyed and benefited the community.

Accompanying the Chancellor Vice Chancellor I Dr. Edy Ikhsan, SH, M.Hum, Vice Chancellor III Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan, S.Si, M.Si, Apt, Vice Chancellor IV Prof. Drs. Opim Salim Sitompul, M.Sc, Vice Chancellor V Ir. Luhut Sihombing, MP, Head of Information System CenterMuhammad Anggia Mukhtar, S.Kom, MTI, and Head of Education Development Unit Prof. Dr. Dwi Suryanto, M.Sc.Meanwhile, from the Faculty of Pharmacy, the Dean of the Faculty of Pharmacy, Khairunnisa, S.Si, M.Pharm, PhD, Apt, and other Vice Deans of the Faculty of Pharmacy were present.(RJ/©ULC)

Author: Renny Julia Harahap - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara