MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Cultural Science
Undergraduate Program In Arabic Literature
Undergraduate Program
Arabic Literature
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Undergraduate Program in Arabic Literature of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is one of the departments in the literature department group in the Faculty of Cultural Science that has received excellent accreditation. Since its establishment, this study program has succeeded in producing outstanding students and creating influential Arabic literature experts in various regions in Indonesia. This study program's main focus is to provide students with speaking, writing, and listening skills in Arabic. In addition, students will also explore the study of Arabic literature, language, and culture in depth. With the support of lecturers who are experts in Arabic literature and certified to teach nationally and the use of an integrated curriculum, we are committed to providing an interactive education and learning experience to our students.

Our main goal is to produce the best individuals in the field of Arabic literature and language who are competent and ready to compete on a national and international scale. Graduates of our study program have a wide range of career opportunities, from becoming translators or journalists to working in embassies or contributing to the mass media industry.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

sastra.arab@usu.ac.id

Undergraduate Program in Arabic Literature

Accredited Excellent

No. 2207/SK/BAN-PT/AK-ISK/S/IV/2022

Vision of Undergraduate Program in Arabic Literature

The Arabic Literature Study Program will become an excellent institution in the fields of education, research, and community service at the regional, national, and international levels by 2025 in Arabic language, literature, and culture based on and with the local character of TALENTA.

Mission of Undergraduate Program in Arabic Literature

Quality Education

To provide excellent quality education in the fields of Arabic language, literature, and culture with local TALENTA characters and able to compete at the regional, national, and international levels in the era of Industry 4.0.

Research

To develop interdisciplinary research in the fields of Arabic language, literature, and culture to promote progress in education, science, technology, and art that is of the local TALENTA characters for the benefit of humanity in the era of Industry 4.0.

Service

To conduct interdisciplinary community service activities based on the local TALENTA characters from the perspective of the Arabic language, literature, and culture to solve societal issues.

Collaboration and Synergy

To collaborate and synergize with industries and institutions both domestically and internationally in the fields of Arabic language, literature, and culture for the development of education, research, and community service.

Competent Graduates

To prepare graduates with knowledge and competence in the fields of Arabic language, literature, and culture, with BINTANG characters, leadership qualities, and concern for societal issues.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Language

Literature

Culture

Contact Us
Undergraduate Program in Arabic Literature
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Universitas No.19, Padang Bulan, Kec. Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20155

(061)-8215956

sastra.arab@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara