MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Inaugurates Off-Campus Study Program In North Nias
USU Inaugurates Off-Campus Study Program in North Nias
Published At
13 October 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Inaugurates Off-Campus Study Program in North Nias
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 13 October 2021

PSDKU is a study program held in an administrative district or city whose location is not directly adjacent to the main campus. A total of 63 students are members of PSDKU in North Nias with two majors, namely Agrotechnology and Water Resources.

USU PR - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) inaugurated an off-Main Campus Study Program (PSDKU) in North Nias Regency. The activity was carried out in order to improve Human Resources (HR) in North Nias.

PSDKU is a study program held in an administrative district or city whose location is not directly adjacent to the main campus. A total of 63 students are members of PSDKU in North Nias with two majors, namely Agrotechnology and Water Resources.

The North Nias itself is currently classified as a 3T area with a fairly high poverty rate and a low per capita income. North Nias has potential in agriculture and fisheries, but its management is still traditional, due to very limited human resources. Through PSDKU, students are expected to be able to advance their region.

In the Opening of New Student Admissions for USU PSDKU 2021, USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., conveyed several things that needed to be done for the preparation and arrangement of this PSDKU. First, make regional priority programs for improving human resources in the regions. It is necessary to design a commitment to include financing to increase human resources.

“Improving human resources in the regions must be a priority program because human resources are very important. Indeed, human resource development cannot be enjoyed quickly, it takes time. We need to commit to this. USU is ready to help North Nias Regency to get out of the 3T regional title," said the Rector through a zoom meeting, Monday (10/11/2021).

Second, North Nias is expected to have an educational location or campus that meets the BAN-PT standardization in the PSDKU which will become the forerunner of the university. North Nias must carry out planning that meets serious criteria and budgeting standards.

“In a 4-5 year process, Nias will have a good campus, such as lecture halls that meet the standards of BAN PT, infrastructure, and a curriculum that meets the standards. North Nias children should be able to enjoy education in their own district,” Mury said.

Third, must be a strong government partner in the implementation of PSDKU. The Rector said that the MBKM program requires children not only to understand theory, but also to understand the problems in North Nias Regency. Students will be taught to provide solutions and solve problems in North Nias. Solutions from students will be input for public policy in North Nias.

“So that when students graduate there is an allocation of their receipts to give their service to North Nias Regency. The 60 percent design is based on practice so that it can provide ideas to solve problems regarding agroetechnology or aquatic resources,” he said.

In addition, it is also important to create a good entrepreneurial spirit so that students can make and market local products of North Nias.

The Rector asked PSDKU students to take advantage of this opportunity as much as possible. Students must improve and ability to learn.

“Learning should be fun. The professors will try to see what you enjoy. Sharpen your passion, for example, you enjoy farming, discuss in groups, then provide solutions to problems in the field you are passionate about,” Mury said.

North Nias Regent Amizaro Waruwu appreciated the realization of this PSDKU. "Under USU's guidance, Nias is confident that it will have qualified human resources," he said.

Amizaro said that the backwardness of North Nias so far is one of the reasons for the lack of human resources to manage natural resources. PSDKU is expected to be a solution to increase the existing potential.

"USU PSDKU graduates will have reliable capabilities and master technology so they can manage natural resources well," said Amizaro. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - PR

News
Management
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara