MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Wins Informative Public Agency Award At The 2021 KIP Award
USU Wins Informative Public Agency Award at the 2021 KIP Award
Published At
05 November 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Wins Informative Public Agency Award at the 2021 KIP Award
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 05 November 2021

This ob-gyn specialist who had a career as a goalkeeper for PSMS, Medan said that in the philosophy of football, it is easier to win than to defend. "So I urge us not to be careless, this assessment will continue to be carried out every year so we have to improve it. If our score is 91.29, then next year it must increase, if it can't increase, it can be maintained at least," he said.

USU PR - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) won an award as an Informative Public Agency in the 2021 Public Information Openness Award for the Higher Education Category. The announcement was delivered directly online through the Central Information Commission (KIP) channel, Tuesday (10/26/2021).

In this category, USU is included in the category of an Informative Public Agency with a score of 91.29. Previously, USU had made a series of preparations to fulfill the criteria as an Informative Public Agency.

University Secretary Prof. Dr. dr. M. Fidel Ganis Siregar, M.Ked (OG), Sp.OG (K) who oversees the Information Management and Documentation Officer as well as Protocol and Promotional Public Relations said, this achievement is a form of hard, smart and careful work from all parties.

Prof. Fidel asserted, in fact, all the criteria that were contested had been done in previous years. Only this time it was more focused and structured. "The parameters that are contested are also more accessible and the flow is followed so that we finally won this award," he said.

This ob-gyn specialist who had a career as a goalkeeper for PSMS, Medan said that in the philosophy of football, it is easier to win than to defend. "So I urge us not to be careless, this assessment will continue to be carried out every year so we have to improve it. If our score is 91.29, then next year it must increase, if it can't increase, it can be maintained at least," he said.

Prof. Fidel emphasized that under the leadership of the dynamic, optimistic and realistic USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, every field has a Main Performance Index target. "With the exception of the Secretary of the University and the institutions under him, this award is a motivation to fulfill the KPI from the Secretary of the University," he said.

Public Relations, Protocol and Promotion, Amalia Meutia, MPsi, Psychologist welcomed this award. He appreciated the performance of the entire PR, Protocol and Promotion Team supported by the University Leaders and all work units within USU. According to him, this is an encouragement to continue to give the best.

"USU PPID ranking has jumped from the Quite Informative rank last year to the Informative rank in 2021. This is a very encouraging progress. Of course this is the result of the hard work of the Public Relations, Protocol and Promotion Team supported by the University Leaders and all work units within USU, he said.

The Vice President of the Republic of Indonesia, KH Ma'ruf Amin, said this award was a trigger to create an atmosphere of good governance in public bodies. This award event is a strategic step so that this goal can be achieved immediately.

"The 2021 Public Information Openness Award is a step in appreciating public bodies that try to provide public information disclosure for the convenience of the public in accessing information," said Ma'ruf Amin.

Chairman of KIP Gede Narayana, in his speech hoped that public bodies would have a high spirit of openness to public information and accountability. According to him, public information disclosure must become a culture in the context of realizing good and clean governance. “Openness to public information must become a culture in Indonesia. Through this award, it becomes a benchmark for the implementation of public information disclosure in waterproofing," he said.

Gede also said that KIP would continue to campaign for public information disclosure. At least KIP has conducted monitoring on 337 public bodies throughout Indonesia. KIP performs groupings in the assessment, such as the ministry category, the state institution category and non-ministerial government agency, the non-structural institution category, the provincial government category, the BUMN category, the state university category, and the political party category.

The assessment carried out in this award is through presentations by each public body that follows it. The classification of assessment includes informative, towards informative, moderately informative, less informative and uninformative. Before making a presentation, each public body sends a short video explaining innovations and collaborations related to public information disclosure during the COVID-19 period. This award is given in the context of implementing Law No. 14 of 2008 concerning Openness of Public Information. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto, Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - PR

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara