MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Campus Life
Students
Students

Universitas Sumatera Utara

Faculty and School

Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) offers a variety of study programs and education levels to help you achieve your career and academic goals.

See detailed tuition fees for each faculty and study program here.

Tuition Fee
Faculty of Medicine
Faculty of Law
Faculty of Agriculture
Faculty of Engineering
Faculty of Economics and Business
Faculty of Dentistry
Faculty of Cultural Science
Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences

With the latest curriculum and adequate facilities, we are committed to providing a quality learning experience.

University Curriculum
Faculty of Social Science and Political Science
Faculty of Public Health
Faculty of Psychology
Faculty of Pharmacy
Faculty of Nursing
Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology
Faculty of Forestry
Faculty of Vocational Education
Postgraduate School

Find the best education program for you at USU based on your choice of study program and degree type. Join us and realize your potential through quality education.

More Education Programs

Information Systems

USU DIRECTORY
USU CLASS
USU REPOSITORY

Various useful information systems for students and alumni to make it easier to carry out academic activities.

More Information Systems

Merdeka Belajar Kampus Merdeka

Take Control of Your Future.

A comprehensive career preparation program to prepare Indonesia best generation. Kampus Merdeka is part of the Merdeka Belajar policy by the Ministry of Education, Culture, Research and Technology (Kemendikbudristek) which provides all students with the opportunity to hone their skills according to their talents and interests by going directly to the world of work as a career preparation step.

Kuliah Kerja Nyata Tematik
Wirausaha Merdeka
Pertukaran Mahasiswa Merdeka
Magang Bersertifikat
Kampus Mengajar
Studi Independen Bersertifikat
Praktisi Mengajar
IISMA
More about MBKM
40+
Student Activity Units

The USU campus offers various platforms for students to engage in activities and learn more outside the classroom. Through student activity units, Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) facilitates students’ hobbies and interests in various fields. Find more opportunities to meet new friends, share new experiences, develop soft skills, interests and skills, as well as build a broad network.

USU student activity units also provide opportunities for students to participate in various events and competitions while expanding their personal network. Participating in student activity units can help students showcase their potential and talents in their respective fields and prepare for future career paths.

See More Student Activity Units
Sports
Martial Arts
Spiritual
Organizational
Science and Technology
Debate and Languages
Music and Literature
Press and Journalism
Student Counseling Service

Student psychological counseling service that is cared for directly by experienced professionals.

Other Counseling Information
launch
USU Whistle Blower

Submit your report regarding the performance, services, as well as facilities and infrastructure at Universitas Sumatera Utara.

Other Whistle Blower Information
launch
References

In conducting academic activities, having references that are relevant and can be trusted for their authenticity is crucial. Universitas Sumatera Utara produces and provides various journals and scientific articles that students can use as a foundation for learning and research. Find out more about campus references below.

Find the University’s Journals
launch
E-Journal
north_east
The Campus’ Press
north_east
Digilib USU
north_east
University Archives
north_east
General Facilities
Health Facilities
Sport Facilities
Disability Facilities

Campus Facilities

Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) provides various facilities that can be used, especially by students and the academic community, to support learning activities and as a means to support various non-academic activities.

Find Out More about Facilities

University Scholarships

No Dream is Too Big, Now You Can Too!

Universitas Sumatera Utara has a range of scholarships that help you navigate the different options and ensure that USU is an affordable choice for your education.

Discover the range of scholarships available at Universitas Sumatera Utara. As a Tri Darma university, Universitas Sumatera Utara provides various internal and external scholarships that can be selected by students, teaching staff, professionals and researchers.

More Scholarships
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara