MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Dentistry
Faculty of Dentistry
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

fkg@usu.ac.id

As the oldest dental education institution in North Sumatra, the Faculty of Dentistry (FKG) of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) has become a pioneer in dental education by successfully producing thousands of qualified dental graduates spread throughout Indonesia. Ranked as the 7th best Faculty of Dentistry in Indonesia, FKG USU offers one undergraduate program, one master's program, one doctoral program, one professional program, and four specialist programs, all of which have received good accreditation. FKG USU studies human dental health, from dental and oral problems to effective treatment methods and remedies. Managed by experts in teeth and mouth with the support of adequate facilities and an integrated curriculum, we provide education to students interested in becoming part of the dental health sector. We are determined to guide our students to become reliable dentists who can positively contribute to improving the dental health of the Indonesian people.

Visit Faculty Page

Undergraduate Program in Dentistry

Undergraduate Program

Dentistry Professional Study Program

Profession Program

Specialist Program in Orthodontics

Spesialist-1 Program

Specialist Program in Prosthodontics

Spesialist-1 Program

Specialist Program in Dental Conservation

Spesialist-1 Program

Specialist Program in Periodontics

Spesialist-1 Program

Specialist Program in Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery

Spesialist-1 Program

Master's Program in Dental Science

Master Program

Doctoral Program in Dental Science

Doctoral Program

Vision of Faculty of Dentistry

To become an institution that produces quality academic, professional, specialist, master, and doctoral graduates of Dentistry with excellence in natural resources, technology, and art that can be globally competitive.

Mission of Faculty of Dentistry

BINTANG

Building academic staff of the USU’s Faculty of Dentistry with the character of BINTANG (Devotion to God Almighty in the frame of diversity, Innovative with integrity, Tough and Wise).

Education

Organizing education oriented to the development of science and technology and the community’s needs in dental and oral health.

Research

Carrying out research oriented towards developing science and technology with excellence in natural resources, technology, and art to solve dental and oral health problems based on evidence-based dentistry as the primary foundation and able to compete globally.

Service

Organizing community service by utilizing the progress of science and technology appropriately to improve oral and dental health.

Contact Us
Faculty of Dentistry
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jalan Alumni No. 2, Kampus USU Medan, Sumatera Utara Indonesia 20155

061-8216131

fkg@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara