MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
E-Office Socialization, USU’s Evidence Continues To Push Campus Digitalization Program
E-Office Socialization, USU’s Evidence Continues to Push Campus Digitalization Program
Published At
03 August 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
E-Office Socialization, USU’s Evidence Continues to Push Campus Digitalization Program
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 03 August 2021

USU PUBLIC RELATION-MEDAN: The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) shows its seriousness in revolutionizing organizational governance in its environment. After a long time using analog and manual work systems, USU has implemented a digital work system. The new normal adaptation during the Covid-19 pandemic also has an impact on this system change.

E-office socialization and training was conducted on Wednesday (7/7/2021) which was attended by work units within USU. The socialization which was held in the Academic Senate Meeting Room, USU Central Administration Bureau was delivered by Seniman, S.Kom, M.Kom., Secretary of USU, Prof. Dr. dr. Muhammad Fidel Ganis Siregar, M.Ked. (OG), Sp.OG (K) was present to open the activity.

"As we all know, that on June 25, 2021, the Rector of USU has officially launched several public service products at the Universitas Sumatera Utara, namely the new USU website, One-Stop Application (ASA) service, E-Office, Agenda, the Transformation Towards the Ultimate tag and logo and the Whistle Blower System," said Prof. Fidel.

He said, the socialization was a follow-up to the launching. With this socialization, he hoped that the system that has been launched can be used and accessed immediately.

"The socialization and training that was held today is a follow-up step that we are taking to implement a mailing service system through e-office simultaneously at the University of North Sumatra," Prof. Fidel said.

The e-office service is intended to facilitate work units at the University of North Sumatra in managing online correspondence. In addition to facilitating the management of incoming and outgoing correspondence electronically, e-office is expected to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the management of correspondence and public services, accelerate the management of Service Manuscripts, and realize a digitalized modern bureaucracy.

“To achieve this goal, I really hope that all participants in the e-office socialization and training will be able to take this activity seriously and with focus, so that later they can apply it to the implementation of tasks in their respective environments. Maybe for some people, this change in the new work system will present its own difficulties and challenges,” he added.

He believed that using e-office will realize the principle of paperless, concise administrative services, in which USU leads to service efficiency that is desired by all parties.

“All the efforts and time that we put in today to change the old work system into a new work system that is more efficient and organized where in the end will make it easier for ourselves and make it easier for others. The public services provided by the University of North Sumatra to everyone will also become more organized, fast and accurate, and provide satisfaction for those who use them," he concluded.

The activity was also attended by the USU Vice Rectors, the Rector's Expert Staff, Bureau leaders, Work Units, and educational staff at USU. (RR/YH-©ULC)

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Rizki Hakim Lubis - PR

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara