MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Two USU Lecturers Get To Be The List Of The 2 Percent Most Influential Scientists In The World
Two USU Lecturers Get to be the List of the 2 Percent Most Influential Scientists in the World
Published At
05 November 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Two USU Lecturers Get to be the List of the 2 Percent Most Influential Scientists in the World
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 05 November 2021

“I congratulate the two USU lecturers and thank them for all their dedication and contribution to the advancement of science and technology as well as pushing USU's progress to the international stage. Hopefully this achievement can be further improved and followed by other USU lecturers, so that it will have a positive impact on improving USU's reputation in international rankings," said the USU Rector.

USU PR - Two lecturers from the Universitas Sumatera Utara, namely Prof. Dr. Eng Himsar Ambarita ST, MT and Prof. Drs. Mahyuddin M.IT, PhD, managed to be in the list of 2 percent of the Most Influential Scientists in the World, whose data was reported by Elsevier BV and Stanford University . The release of the updated database as of October 20, 2021, contains 58 Indonesian-affiliated scientists who are listed in the single year category. Prof. Dr. Eng Himsar Ambarita ST, MT, who is a USU Professor from the Mechanical Engineering Study Program, Faculty of Engineering, occupies the 44th position on the list. Accompanying him was Prof. Drs. Mahyuddin M.IT, PhD, who is also a USU Professor from Fasilkom TI, who was in 58th position.

(Prof. Drs. Mahyuddin M.IT, PhD)

Prof. Himsar Ambarita admitted that he was very grateful and motivated to do more useful research work with this data, especially technology-based research that has a contribution to make it easier for humans to carry out social and economic functions.

"I hope that in the years to come, more and more USU lecturers will be successful in this list, and will have a significant influence on the development of science and technology," he said.

USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., responded with joy to this achievement. According to him, the inclusion of USU lecturers in the list of the 2 percent of the world's most influential scientists will be able to open wider doors for USU to achieve its goal of becoming an international standard university.

“I congratulate the two USU lecturers and thank them for all their dedication and contribution to the advancement of science and technology as well as pushing USU's progress to the international stage. Hopefully this achievement can be further improved and followed by other USU lecturers, so that it will have a positive impact on improving USU's reputation in international rankings," said USU Rector, Prof. Dr. Eng Himsar Ambarita ST, MT, has carried out many research activities, where one of his researches entitled Design of a Continuous Solar Dryer Machine Integration System of Photovoltaic-Thermal (PV-T) and Thermal Storage, the high quality is considered by Elsevier-Stanford University to have a very good impact. The sun dryer can operate at night, so the drying time is shorter.

Several researches have been conducted by Prof Himsar, including Quality Improvement of Indonesian Cocoa through Drying Method (2013-2014), Characteristics of Adsorbent Mixture of Activated Alumina and Activated Carbon as a Solar Energy Cooling Engine Generator (2014-2015), Modification and testing of diesel engine fuel Dual-fuel diesel-biogas (2016), Design of a Hybrid Solar Energy Seawater Desalination Device for Multi-story Natural Vacuum System (2016-2017), Design of a solar water heater with a heat pipe system using a secondary fluid (2017), Dryer Machine compact that utilizes the exhaust heat of the air conditioning system condenser (2017) and the Development, Analysis and Optimization of Hybrid Flat Plate Solar Collectors (2018).

As of October 23, 2021, his publications on Scopus were 134 pieces with an h index of 14. He still produces many works. During this pandemic, he created several tools, including sterilizers and nano healing booths, which have been copyrighted and patented.

The man who was born on June 10, 1972, completed his undergraduate degree at the Universitas Sumatera Utara in Medan, his master's degree at the Bandung Institute of Technology (ITB), and his doctorate at the Muroran Institute of Technology, JAPAN. He published two books, Heat and Mass Transfer (Analytical and Numerical Solutions) and Engineering Thermodynamics, Fundamentals and Applications, in 2017. Currently he still continues to write and is active as a speaker in various national and international forums.

Over the past five years, he has received several awards, namely Best Published Paper 2006 from the Japan Solar Energy Society in 2007, the North Sumatra Automotive Innovation Award from IMI Sumut in 2013, the Most efficient Urban Concept Alternative Gasoline Car in Asia 2014 (Advisor) from Shell Asia in 2014 and Advisor for the Horas Team as the North Sumatran representative in the Asia-level Energy Saving car competition from the North Sumatra Provincial Government in 2014.

His name is also included in the team for formulating various public policies and social engineering, including the Expert Team for Preparation of Provincial Government GHG Emission Reduction Regional Action Plans. North Sumatra (2012), Development on Nationally Appropriate Mitigation Actions (NAMAs) on Small scale Renewable Energy in Indonesia (2013) and Preparation of USU RJP 2014-2039, Strategic Plan 2014 - 2019 and Strategic Plan 2020 - 2024. He serves as Chairman of USU's World Class University (WCU) team.(©ULC)

Author: Renny Julia Harahap - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang, Muhammad Andriansyah - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara