MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Vocational Education
Diploma Program In Accounting
Diploma Program
Accounting
Universitas Sumatera Utara

As one of the first D3 programs at Universitas Sumatera Utara, the Diploma Program in Accounting was founded in 1975. The Diploma Program in Accounting provides excellent practice-based education and teaching on financial accounting, tax accounting, and auditing.

With the assistance of professional accounting teaching staff, our study program is deeply committed to producing associate experts competent in preparing, analyzing, and auditing financial statements based on applicable accounting standards. Graduates of our study program are well prepared to practice as accountants, financial administrators, tax consultants, financial analysts, and other fields of work in the accounting industry. The Diploma Program in Accounting or USU's Corporate Administration Expert Education. Education of Corporate Administration Experts was established based on the Decree of the Minister of Education and Culture of the Republic of Indonesia. No. 042 / U / 1975 dated March 13, 1975, is a follow-up to the Phasing Out AAN Negeri Medan.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

dipl-akuntansi@usu.ac.id

Diploma Program in Accounting

Accredited Excellent

2552/SK/BAN-PT/AK-ISK/Dipl-III/IV/2022

Vision of Diploma Program in Accounting

Becoming a Reputable Study Program in Producing Professional, Moral, and Qualified Intermediate Accounting Technicians at the Global Level.

Mission of Diploma Program in Accounting

Education

Provide professional education and teaching to prepare students to achieve competence in financial accounting, tax accounting, and auditing.

Innovative

Organize soft skill-based education and teaching, and being innovative and proactive.

Transparency and Accountable

Organize good governance, transparency, and accountability based on devotion to God Almighty.

Service

Improve services for students and other stakeholders.

Research and Devotion

Carry out research and community service under the development of science and technology in accounting to support a quality and competitive learning process.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Taxation

Entrepreneurship

Accounting Information System

Expense Accounting

Auditing

Public Sector Accounting

Management Accounting

Contact Us
Diploma Program in Accounting
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jalan Bioteknologi No.2 Kampus USU Medan 20155

(061)-828532

dipl-akuntansi@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara