MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Kampus Merdeka
Kampus Merdeka Program
Universitas Sumatera Utara
Independent Campus is a policy issued by the Ministry of Education and Culture by giving rights to students to take courses outside the study program for 1 semester and activities outside college for 2 semesters. Universities are given the freedom to provide Independent Campus activities that suit the needs and interests of their students. Student experience at the Merdeka Campus activities will have a major influence on student career readiness by ensuring students continue to pay attention to changes in the world outside the campus while studying and have the opportunity to apply knowledge to real-world problems.

Why do students need to join the Merdeka Campus program?

Experience of practical activities in the field that will be converted into credits.
Exploration of knowledge and skills in the field for more than one semester.
Learn and expand your network outside your study program or home campus.
Gain knowledge directly from quality and reputable Partners.
Kuliah Kerja Nyata Tematik
Wirausaha Merdeka
Pertukaran Mahasiswa Merdeka
Magang Bersertifikat
Kampus Mengajar
Studi Independen Bersertifikat
Praktisi Mengajar
IISMA
More about Merdeka Belajar Kampus Merdeka

MBKM in Number

The Merdeka Belajar Kampus Merdeka (MBKM) program at the University of North Sumatra has had a significant impact on students, lecturers, and industry partners. Through the data displayed, you can see the active participation of students, the various excellent programs implemented, and USU's contribution in supporting higher education innovation in Indonesia. Each number reflects a collective effort to create a generation that is superior, adaptive, and ready to face global challenges.

81

Ministry Teaching Campus

129

USU Partner Teaching Campus

2

Independent Entrepreneurship

691

Thematic Community Service Program

158

Faculty Partner Internship

316

USU Partner Internship

614

MSIB

27

Faculty Partner Research

305

Ministry Student Exchange

47

Faculty Partner Student Exchange

4

Ministry Humanitarian Projects

81

Ministry Independent Research

Frequently Asked Questions
Can I apply for more than one Kampus Merdeka program in the same period?

Students may apply to more than 1 (one) program in the same period, but students can only choose or be active in 1 (one) program in the same period.

Is there a maximum limit for students to qualify and actively participate in activities in the Kampus Merdeka program?

The following are the maximum active provisions registered in the Kampus Merdeka program:

PMM: Maximum active and registered 1 time (1 batch)
MSIB: Maximum active and registered 2 times (2 batches)
Teaching Campus: Maximum active and registered 1 time (1 batch)

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara