MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Entrepreneurial Talent At USU Realizes Economic Independence
Entrepreneurial Talent at USU Realizes Economic Independence
Published At
12 April 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Entrepreneurial Talent at USU Realizes Economic Independence
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 12 April 2022

"The contribution of young college students in the economic development sector, by acting as direct actors, is expected to be able to motivate Indonesia's young generation to live independently and open up new job opportunities as an effort to reduce the number of educated unemployed in this country," the Rector said.

USU PR - The Faculty of Economics and Business (FEB) Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is collaborating with Bank Syariah Indonesia (BSI) in order to develop interest in entrepreneurship among students through the BSI Entrepreneurial Talent program for the Medan Region. This activity was held in a hybrid manner in the USU FEB Hall, Wednesday (3/30/2022).

USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., said, this program is also an effort to increase the number of young entrepreneurs as a new basis for the Indonesian economy.

"The contribution of young college students in the economic development sector, by acting as direct actors, is expected to be able to motivate Indonesia's young generation to live independently and open up new job opportunities as an effort to reduce the number of educated unemployed in this country," the Rector said.

The Rector appreciated the Entrepreneurial Talent program which is an important breakthrough in realizing economic independence, encouraging the progress of MSMEs and strengthening the business sector. This is in accordance with USU's efforts to transform classrooms into collaborative and participatory ones, where students are required to generate innovation and business downstream.

“At USU, we are currently establishing collaborative and participatory classes, so in one class several groups are formed. They propose a project that results in downstream business. Even if 80% of the total courses achieved, 50% of them have entered collaborative and participatory classes," he said.

In addition, USU will also continue to expand synergies with MSMEs and other production centers within the scope of the Merdeka Learning Campus Merdeka (MBKM) program to improve the skills and abilities of USU's young entrepreneurs and increase the experience of interacting directly with business practitioners.

"We hope that, through the BSI Entrepreneurial Talent Program, more and more young entrepreneurs will be born from USU, who no longer tie their future to the dream of being an office worker. Nowadays, many types of work have been lost, the important and never missing ones are thinking analysis, influencing others and performing well,” Dr. Muryanto said.

On the same occasion, PJS RCEO BSI Medan Ahmad Wibowo said that his party believes that the economic revival starts from the rise of MSME actors. Therefore, BSI is committed to support economic revival in the North Sumatra region through this program.

“This onboarding activity or roadshow is the 9th which has previously been held in 8 major cities in Indonesia. Our hope is that this Entrepreneurial Talent activity can help bridge the needs of entrepreneurs for access to bank capital," he said.

Ahmad Wibowo added that his party would also cooperate through signing an MoU with FEB USU for the screening process for entrepreneurial talent in North Sumatra.

"I am sure that from USU there will be many entrepreneurial talents who have a strong foundation, BSI is ready to support talents at USU so that they can fly on the national stage," he concluded. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara