MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Vice Dean III Of FK USU Builds Collaboration With College Of Korean Medicine, Kyung Hee University
Vice Dean III of FK USU Builds Collaboration with College of Korean Medicine, Kyung Hee University
Published At
07 November 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
Vice Dean III of FK USU Builds Collaboration with College of Korean Medicine, Kyung Hee University
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Thursday, 07 November 2024

This visit was to discuss and strengthen cooperation in the academic and research fields, and aims to expand international collaboration between the two institutions, especially in the field of student and staff exchanges, as well as joint research in the field of oncology.

Vice Dean for Cooperation, Research and Community Service of the Faculty of Medicine, Universitas Sumatera Utara, Dr. Inke Nadia Diniyanti Lubis, PGDipPID M.Ked (Ped), SpA, PhD, visited the College of Korean Medicine, Kyung Hee University, at the end of October 2024.

 

This visit was to discuss and strengthen cooperation in the academic and research fields, and aims to expand international collaboration between the two institutions, especially in the field of student and staff exchange, as well as joint research in the field of oncology.

 

During this visit, the Vice Dean III of FK USU was received by the College of Korean Medicine, Kyung Hee University, including Prof Byung Cheol Lee (Vice Dean), Prof Hi Joon Park (Vice Dean for Research), Prof Wung Seok Cha (Head of the College of Korean Medicine), Prof Sanghoon Lee (Head of the Department of Internal Medicine), Prof Jinbong Park (Head of the Department of Pharmacology), and Prof Bong Lee Kim (Head of the Department of Pathology).

 

Building a Student and Staff Exchange Network

 

Kyung Hee University is one of the best universities in Korea with a ranking of 328 based on QS World University Ranking and is the university with the oldest Korean College Medicine. One of the main agendas in this visit was to discuss opportunities for student and academic staff exchange between the USU Faculty of Medicine and Kyung Hee University. The program is expected to provide an opportunity for students from both universities to gain academic and clinical experience in another country, which will enrich their understanding of international medical approaches.

 

Academic staff exchange is also an important concern in this collaboration. With the staff exchange program, both institutions can share knowledge and experience in various medical fields, including teaching methodologies, clinical practice, as well as the latest technological developments in the healthcare field. This is expected to improve the quality of medical education and strengthen professional networks among academics from both universities.

 

Focus on Oncology Research

In addition to student and staff exchanges, research was also a major focus of the discussion. Both universities agreed to strengthen research cooperation, especially in the field of oncology. Oncology, as a branch of science that studies the prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of cancer, has very complex challenges and requires multi-disciplinary collaboration to produce new breakthroughs.

 

The research collaboration between the USU Faculty of Medicine and Kyung Hee University is expected to create innovative research that can have a positive impact on cancer treatment. This research covers various aspects, ranging from clinical trials, development of new therapies, to the use of advanced technologies such as bioinformatics and nanotechnology in cancer diagnosis and treatment.

 

By utilizing the expertise and resources of both institutions, it is expected that the results of this research can be published in leading international journals and contribute to the development of cancer treatment at the global level.

 

Potential for Further Development

The cooperation between the Faculty of Medicine of USU and Kyung Hee University is expected to not only be limited to student exchange and oncology research. In the discussions that took place, there is potential for further development of cooperation in other areas, such as joint scientific conferences, continuing education programs, as well as interdisciplinary research projects involving other faculties in both universities.

 

The visit also provided an opportunity for both parties to understand each other's academic and social cultures, which is important in building strong international partnerships. With this synergy, the USU Faculty of Medicine and Kyung Hee University are optimistic that they can make a real contribution in addressing global health challenges and improving the quality of medical education.

News
SDGs
SDGs 3
SDGs 17
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara