MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Suara USU Executive Appointed, Pimum Emphasizes The Importance Of Idealism In The Student Press.
Suara USU Executive Appointed, Pimum Emphasizes the Importance of Idealism in the Student Press.
Published At
04 October 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Suara USU Executive Appointed, Pimum Emphasizes the Importance of Idealism in the Student Press.
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 04 October 2021

"The student press is an indication of democracy on campus. The student press is a form of hope and a necessity of democracy, which we always aspire to," said Fadhlan.

USU PR - The USU Suara Student Press Institute for the 2021-2022 period was officially inaugurated, Sunday (9/26/2021).

This inauguration activity was carried out in a hybrid manner, where several invited guests were present at the location at the Malay Anjungan Building offline and online using zoom meetings.

The management was appointed Vice Rector I, represented by Imam Bagus, Expert Staff of the Rector for Student Affairs, Universitas Sumatera Utara. Also present were several other figures such as the alumni and founder of Suara USU, Rusli Harahap, Vice President of the Universitas Sumatera Utara Students, Anas Alfarizi and the press delegation of students from all over North Sumatra.

In total, there were 76 administrators who were sworn in at this event.

The General Leader of Suara USU, Muhammad Fadhlan Amri, emphasized that at this time it was important for the student press to have ideals and a real role in society.

“The press lea ds people out of darkness and out of ignorance. But today we see that many press only view the disbursement of funds with economic demands and pretexts. From society only left on our shoulders, on the shoulders of the student press. For that, the student press cannot die. The student press is an indication of democracy on campus. The student press is a form of hope and a necessity of democracy, which we always aspire to,” he said.

Expert staff the Rector for Student Affairs, Imam Bagus said that the press is a productive tool to form students with character.

“Students press is a productive tool in forming graduates who have character and have a responsible personality. As the front line and an institution that has the capacity and quality to produce positive, innovative human resources with character and responsibility,” he explained.

In line with Imam Bagus, Kurniadi Syahputra, who is the General Leader for the 2020-2021 period, said that Suara USU must be at the forefront, being a pioneer in promoting literacy.

“Hopefully we as the younger generation will continue the struggle of students to always be at the forefront to convey information properly and correctly. With the theme of literacy, I hope that the voice of usu will be a pioneer for other students so that if we are able to be at the forefront as literacy activists, "said the student from the Faculty of Agriculture. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Humas - Humas

News
Campus Life
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara