MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
FH USU Holds National Seminar: Dominus Litis In Criminal Procedure Law Reform
FH USU Holds National Seminar: Dominus Litis in Criminal Procedure Law Reform
Published At
20 March 2025
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
FH USU Holds National Seminar: Dominus Litis in Criminal Procedure Law Reform
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 20 March 2025

“In the context of criminal procedure law reform in Indonesia, the concept of Dominus Litis has experienced its dynamics. We hope this discussion can make a real contribution to the development of criminal law in Indonesia. Let us continue to work together to realize a better and fairer criminal justice system for the entire community,” said Prof. Edy Ikhsan.

 

Public Relations USU—The Faculty of Law (FH), Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), held a national seminar entitled “Dominus Litis in the Context of Criminal Procedure Law Reform: Between Theory and Practice” on Wednesday (03/19/2025) in the DPF Law Room of FH USU.

 

This seminar presented three speakers, namely Prof. Dr. Pujiyono Suwadi, S.H., M.H., as Chairman of the Attorney General's Commission of the Republic of Indonesia, Prof. Dr. Alvi Syahrin, S.H., M.S. - Professor of FH USU, and Dr. Darmawan Yusuf, S.H., S.E., M.Pd. M.H - Advocate, DYA Law Firm. The discussion focused on examining more deeply the role of the prosecutor's office as Dominus Litis in the criminal justice system as well as the challenges and dynamics of its application in the midst of legal developments in Indonesia.

 

In his remarks, USU Vice Rector I, Prof. Dr. Edy Ikhsan, S.H., M.A. said that this seminar was an opportunity to discuss the development of criminal procedure law, especially related to the Dominus Litis principle. He hoped that this discussion could contribute to the development of criminal law in Indonesia and encourage the cooperation of all parties to build a better and fairer justice system.

 

“In the context of criminal procedure law reform in Indonesia, the concept of Dominus Litis has experienced its dynamics. We hope this discussion can make a real contribution to the development of criminal law in Indonesia. Let us continue to work together to realize a better and fairer criminal justice system for the entire community,” said Prof. Edy Ikhsan.

 

Meanwhile, Dean of FH USU, Dr. Mahmul Siregar, SH, M.Hum revealed that this activity was a momentum in building new cooperation with the Indonesian Prosecutor's Commission, marked by the signing of the MoU. He stated that this seminar could provide useful thoughts and recommendations for reform in criminal procedure law.

 

“This is a momentum to form a new cooperation. Earlier, the MoU was signed between the USU Rector and the Dean of the Faculty of Law with the Chairman of the Prosecutor's Commission. Today, we discuss to provide enlightenment and thoughts, which are expected to be input in the materials for reforming criminal procedure law in Indonesia,” said Dr. Mahmul Siregar.

 

Furthermore, Dr. Mahmul Siregar said this seminar was a real community service. The Faculty of Law is not only tasked with producing theories but also trying to apply them in more concrete legal policies. Students are also encouraged to keep abreast of legal developments in society, contributing to the formation, enforcement, and supervision of law in the future.

“This is one of our forms of service. What we teach is not only conceptually accepted. Law exists in society, and we must learn about the development of law and society. We hope students can respond to these developments, and we facilitate them in the form of activities like today,” added Dr. Mahmul Siregar.

 

Dr. Asepte Gaulle Ginting, SH, MH., the Chairperson of the Committee, said that this seminar was a forum to discuss and evaluate the concept of Dominus Litis in the context of criminal procedure law reform in Indonesia. He hoped this activity could be a productive space to exchange ideas and produce constructive recommendations for the criminal justice system in Indonesia.

 

“This event is an important forum for us to discuss, review, and reflect on this concept in Indonesia's criminal procedure law reform. We hope this can be a productive space to exchange ideas and produce constructive recommendations,” said Dr. Asepte Gaulle Ginting.

 

Prof. Dr. Pujiyono Suwadi, S.H., M.H., explained that the discussion in this seminar focused on the formal law that accompanies the material law. He emphasized that this rule aims to ensure the criminal justice system's integrity. In addition, he highlighted the importance of public participation in drafting legal norms to make them more comprehensive and broadly applicable.

 

“We are discussing the formal law that accompanies the material law. It will guarantee two things: the integrity of the criminal justice system and due process of law. More and more public participation will produce a more complete legal norm,” Prof. Pujiyono Suwandi explained.

News
SDGs 4
SDGs
SDGs 16
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara