MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
WCP Guest Lecture, USU Rector Invites Lecturers To Participate For WCU
WCP Guest Lecture, USU Rector Invites Lecturers to Participate for WCU
Published At
04 October 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
WCP Guest Lecture, USU Rector Invites Lecturers to Participate for WCU
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 04 October 2021

MEDAN – USU PUBLIC RELATIONS: The Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), Dr. Muryanto Amin S.Sos., M.Si., invites lecturers to participate more in USU's efforts to improve rankings in the ranks of World Class University (WCU). This was conveyed when opening the Guest Lecture World Class Professor (WCP) event on Thursday (9/23/2021) online.

In his remarks, he emphasized the participation and role of all parties needed to improve USU's ranking. Lecturers' contributions are expected to improve the assessment indicators so as to provide a good assessment for USU. A completion of the assessment indicators is homework for USU at this time.

“We are working on USU's efforts to internationalize. Being in the ranks of WCU will certainly make us a campus with international standards. It is important that we apply standardization to uniform our steps and strategies,” said Muryanto.

He emphasized that the standardization carried out helped USU to be able to participate in the advancement of world science. By following standardization, it means that USU is aligning itself with other leading campuses in the world.

“Standardization is important so that we can join forces to become a leading campus in the world. Standardization is a guide for us, the only difference that exists from each university is that it has its own focus in its efforts and strategies," the USU Rector emphasized.

According to him, activities like this should be done more often. In addition to increasing knowledge, it is also a means of gaining access and networking for the benefit of science. He mentioned that this kind of activity provides an opportunity to be able to innovate.

“More often we do joint lectures, joint research, student exchange, best learning experiences and other activities that we must encourage. This is necessary to increase the level of knowledge of our human resources," said the USU Rector.

He encourages lecturers to be more creative and innovative in developing student potential. Currently the development of science is very rapid, the old way is certainly not relevant to the current state of students.

“The most difficult thing right now is how to convey knowledge to students. We must strive so that students get good knowledge from lecturers. Therefore, the lecturer acts as a theoretical source. Besides that, lecturers provide flexibility for students to practice,” he stressed.

Muryanto Amin also encourages a balance of scientific publications from the natural and social knowledge clusters. He realized that social science lecturers were constrained by research materials and publications, so special handling was needed for that.

“We must encourage lecturers from social groups to be able to do more scientific publications. We hope that lecturers who are proficient and have many scientific publications can accompany lecturers who are still having difficulties in conducting scientific publications, "he said.

Also attending the online activity Plt. Head of Engineering Science Research Organization, National Innovation Research Agency (BRIN), Dr. Agus Haryono, MSc, Prof. Dr. M Shabri, SE, M.Ec from the Faculty of Economics, Syiah Kuala University, Banda Aceh, Prof Dr Himsar Ambarita, ST, MT, Saharman Gea, PhD, Prof. Dr. Erman Munir MSc, Dr. Khatarina Meldawati Pasaribu, SPd, M.Si, and invited guests. (RR/©ULC)

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Rizki Hakim Lubis - PR

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara