MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
The Role Of Expert Staff Of The Rector To Help Policy Formulation And Monitoring
The Role of Expert Staff of the Rector to Help Policy Formulation and Monitoring
Published At
14 July 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
The Role of Expert Staff of the Rector to Help Policy Formulation and Monitoring
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 14 July 2021

MEDA-PUBLIC RELATION: Following the Work Program Coordination Meeting with the Deans and Vice Deans at the University of Sumatera Utara (USU), the Rector of USU, Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos, M.Si, invited the rector expert staffs.

The Rector emphasized the role and function of expert staff, specifically for the program's success, in the meeting held on Friday (5/28/2021) in the Academic Senate Meeting Room, USU Central Administration Bureau Building.

"This consolidation meeting is being held to ensure that we can meet our objectives. This is known as structural consolidation, and it is used to determine the vice rector, dean, deputy dean, and expert staff. The consolidation that follows is about the study program, which is also the most important for the program's success," the Rector claimed.

He highlighted that the task of the Rector's expert staff in running a program requires collaboration with related parties. The expert staff must ensure that the program is on track by assisting the leader in the decision-making process.

"The work of the expert staff should be data-driven; it can be done alone or as part of a team. This team does not execute the program; instead, it assists the leader in developing policies, monitoring and supervising the implementation," he explained.

He anticipated that the expert team should work in an agile manner and expected to work both independently and collaboratively. The essential key for carrying out this duty is collaboration.

"The expert staff should not be selfish; they should be able to collaborate and coordinate with other related parties. They should be able to work partially. As a result, a coordinator is required to ensure that the expert staffs are not working alone," he continued.

The role of the expert staff is vital in ensuring that the Rector's instructions are correctly understood and implemented because we still have many things to do.

The role of expert staff is very crucial to the success of the work program. One of USU's top priorities is figuring out how to create a single data set so that the data collection system can be well integrated. It is also worth noting that the number of USU's research from the 1,500 lecturers is still only 40%, indicating that the performance is still lacking," he said.

He believes that USU requires revitalization in the future. The Rector anticipates that the expert staff to play an active role in the plan's success. One of the highlights points out the structural revitalization of the existing bureau at USU.

"The chief of USU Education and Manpower Bureau is still of poor quality; USU should implement a transformation or transition strategy to encourage the lecturers to innovate. In the future, USU needs to establish a directorate so that the bureau can learn from the director. He explained that USU would change the bureau's position into directorate and change into point-based remuneration system earned from performance achievement.

On that occasion, the Rector appointed eleven Rector's Expert Staffs, some of whom had previously served as dean and deputy deans in USU.

Ikhsan Siregar ST, M.Eng serves as the Rector's expert staff in Monitoring and Evaluation, also as the expert staffs' coordinator. Reni Asmara Ariga, S.Kp, MARS, serves as the Rector’s expert staff in Academic. Imam Bagus Sumantri, S.Farm, M Si, Apt, serves as the Rector’s expert staff in Students and Alumni. Rahma Yurliani, S.Psi, M.Psi, serves as the Rector’s expert staff in Human Resource Development, Education and Training. Prof. Dr. Alvi Sahrin, SH, MS, serves as the Rector’s expert staff in Institution and Management. Dr. Nurman Achmad, S.Sos, M.Soc.Sc, serves as the Rector’s expert staff in Beuracratic Reformation and Public Service. Dr. Abdillah Arif Nasution, SE, M.Si., Ak serves as the Rector’s expert staff in Finance and Monitoring.

Prof. Dr. Ir. Abdul Rauf, MP, serves as the Expert Staff for Community Service and Innovation. Prof. Dr. Eng Himsar Ambarita, ST, MT, serves as the Expert Staff for Research and Internationalization. Siti Salmiah, drg., Sp.KGA, serves as the Expert Staff of theRector for Cooperation and Downstream Research Products. Emerson Pascawira Sinulingga, ST, M Sc, PhD, serves as the Expert Staff of the Rector for Information Systems, Planning, and Development.

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Rizki Hakim Lubis - PR

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara