MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Rector Urges Students To Participate In Covid-19 Vaccine After PCR Swab
USU Rector Urges Students to Participate in Covid-19 Vaccine after PCR Swab
Published At
05 October 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Rector Urges Students to Participate in Covid-19 Vaccine after PCR Swab
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 05 October 2021

Not only for students, the implementation of vaccination, since the 2nd day is also opens to the general public due to the high enthusiasm of the community.

USU PR - After participating in the PCR swab which was held at USU's Pancasila Building, Rector Dr Muryanto Amin appealed to students to come to take part in the Covid-19 vaccination and PCR swab.

"Come for the vaccines, keep the health protocols," said the Rector when reviewing the implementation of vaccinations and PCR swabs at USU, Thursday (30/9).

For information, around 4,000 USU students have vaccinated at the Pancasila Building, U SU until Thursday (9/30). Until the 4th day of vaccination, the registrants have reached around 12,000 people.

The Rector also advised that when face-to-face lectures are held, students must keep their distance, wash their hands, and no crowd. "After college, go back to their respective homes," he said.

Not only for students, the implementation of vaccination, since the 2nd day is also opens to the general public due to the high enthusiasm of the community.

Head of the USU Vaccination Center Committee, dr. Inke Nadia D. Lubis, M.Ked(Ped), SpA, PhD explained, since the first day, many people have come, but they have not been accepted because of limited human resources who can only administer 2,250 doses.

“In the first few days we only provided for students, because the priority was to prepare for face-to-face lectures. Then, it is also open to education staff, lecturers, and lecturers' families. But now it is also open to the public. Because there are quite a number of students who register, about 60% of students from each faculty, "explained Dr. Inke Nadia.

This vaccination will continue to be carried out until the 8th, because the dose provided is in accordance with the target calculation of the number of USU students and families who have not been vaccinated.

"This is more or less sufficient, in fact, out of 36,000 USU students there are still less, but perhaps many students have received vaccinations elsewhere," dr. Inke said.

Not only vaccinations, free PCR swabs were also carried out by USU as part of the preparation for face-to-face lectures.

"This is also part of the face-to-face preparation to see if there are still a large number of students exposed, so that we have original data that these USU students on average have not been exposed and have been vaccinated, so we can be better prepared to prepare for face-to-face lectures," he said.

dr. Inke added that to get free PCR swabs, participants could come directly.

Meanwhile, to register for vaccination, USU students can open the website https://vaksinasicovid19.usu.ac.id/#/ by filling in the Student Identification Number (NIM) for students, so that each faculty will get data on the proportion of students who have been vaccinated. Meanwhile, the general public can register on the same website using the Residential Identification Number (NIK). (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - PR

News
Campus Life
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara