MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Rector To Be Awarded The Honorary Title Sultanate Of Deli
USU Rector to be Awarded the Honorary Title Sultanate of Deli
Published At
10 October 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Rector to be Awarded the Honorary Title Sultanate of Deli
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 10 October 2022

the traditional ruler of the Deli Sultanate. "Of course I feel honored and the awarding of this title will also certainly be accompanied by moral responsibility. It is not an easy thing to receive an honorary title from the Deli Sultanate. I must be ready with all the consequences, and God willing, I am ready," the Rector said.

USU PR - Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si will receive an honorary degree from the Deli Sultanate. This was revealed in an audience from the Deli Sultanate. The plan to award the honorary title itself will be held in a traditional ceremony which will be held on October 2, 2022 at the Maimun Palace.

Datuq Adil Freddy Haberham, S.E who holds the title Datuq Seri Setia Diraja, said that the awarding of this honorary title was in commemoration of the Sultan of Deli's Sonship Day. In the traditions of the Deli Sultanate, there is a sonship day, namely the birthday of the sultan who was on the throne at that time, and currently the 14th Sultan of Deli is Mahmud Arya Lamanjiji.

"The awarding of this title is carried out in commemoration of the Day of the Sultanate of Deli who is currently in office," he said.

Datuq Adil Freddy also said that the Son's Day fell on August 29 and one of the series on the Day of Sonship was the handing over of honorary degrees and one of those who received the honor was the Rector of USU, because the Rector of USU has done a lot in the world of education, providing benefits to many people.

"This 14th Deli Sultanate Day falls on August 29, because the 14th Sultan of Deli, Mahmud Arya Lamanjiji, was born on August 29, 1998," he said.

Tengku Fauziddin Delikkhan who holds the title Tengku Pangeran Bendahara Deli said that the meaning of the handover of honor was that the Rector of USU became part of the Deli Sultanate itself. And according to tradition, if you have joined to become part of the Deli Sultanate, you must provide benefits for the general public and USU academics.

"If the USU Rector has received an honorary degree, it means that the USU Rector is part of the Deli Sultanate," explained Tengku Fauziddin.

Tengku Moharsyah Nazmi who holds the title Tengku Duta Settia Narawangsa Deli also said that the responsibility that the USU Rector would assume after receiving the honorary degree was expected to be able to jointly maintain the existence of the Deli Sultanate so that it could become a symbol of the Malay Sultanate in East Sumatra.

"And it is hoped that the Rector of USU has a concern for culture, enthusiasm, and is responsible for contributing to advancing culture in East Sumatra," he said.

USU Rector Dr Muryanto Amin welcomed the plan to award the title from the Deli Sultanate and was honored to be one of the chosen by the Deli Sultanate's traditional holders.

"Of course I feel honored and the awarding of this title will also certainly be accompanied by moral responsibility. It is not an easy thing to receive an honorary degree from the Deli Sultanate. I must be ready with all the consequences, and God willing, I am ready," said Mury, welcoming the honorary title from the Deli Sultanate. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Management
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara