MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Scout Mugus, Vice Rector I: Transforming To Become Leading Front Group In Indonesia
USU Scout Mugus, Vice Rector I: Transforming to Become Leading Front Group in Indonesia
Published At
29 October 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Scout Mugus, Vice Rector I: Transforming to Become Leading Front Group in Indonesia
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 29 October 2021

"Various things have been prepared by USU leaders in an effort to improve the existence of USU Scouts, where at the direction of the USU Rector, USU Scouts will be given the responsibility to be able to manage the area in the Kwala Bekala Campus II area. USU Scouts are expected to be able to maximize these facilities related to the implementation of Dasa Darma, namely love for nature and compassion for fellow humans," he said.

USU PR - Vice Rector I of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Dr. Edy Ikhsan, SH, MA, representing the Rector of USU officially opened the Medan City Front Group Deliberation (Mugus) of 08.137 and 08.138 Universitas Sumatera Utara Base on Friday (10/22/2021) at the ex- USU LPPM Hall, Jl Dr. Mansyur.

“The Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara welcomes and appreciates the holding of the the Medan City Front Group Deliberation (Mugus) of 08.137 and 08.138 Universitas Sumatera Utara Base today. He hopes that the Deliberation can be a momentum to reflect on the things that have been done in the past period, as well as re-evaluate the goals that have not been achieved and the various obstacles that exist," Edy said.

He also mentioned that apart from reflection and evaluation, the Mugus will also set a work agenda for the next period, taking into account the priorities, opportunities and challenges that exist, while preparing for the next periodization.

"We all hope that the potential of USU Scouts can be maximized to transform into one of the front groups of superior universities in Indonesia," he said.

Mugus activities are adult scouting activities in the Scout Movement, especially at the Front Gugus level, which are carried out as a forum for evaluating the performance of the administrators. The implementation of the Front Group Deliberation (Mugus) is a forum to determine the direction and planning of a front group, through a series of programs to support the mission and achieve its vision.

"Various things have been prepared by USU leaders in an effort to improve the existence of USU Scouts, where at the direction of the USU Rector, USU Scouts will be given the responsibility to be able to manage the area in the Kwala Bekala Campus II area. USU Scouts are expected to be able to maximize these facilities related to the implementation of Dasa Darma, namely love for nature and compassion for fellow humans," he said.

The USU Rector also encouraged USU Scouts to serve the community through the assisted village program, in collaboration with the USU Community Service Institute (LPPM). This can be collaborated with the scouting values ​​contained in Tri Satya as the Scout Movement's code of ethics. So the roles and responsibilities carried out by college scouts are becoming more and more widespread.

“To achieve this goal, the Rector hopes that the potential of USU's academic community can be maximized. Through the Mugus forum, which will schedule the election of the Chair of the Next Cluster for the next period, we hope that the potential of the academic community, both from lecturers and education staff, can be maximized," Edy said.

On the occasion it was also mentioned that the Rector of USU expressed his gratitude and highest appreciation for the dedication, achievements and performance that had been carried out by the ranks of the chairmen and supervisors of the front group in the previous periodization.

Present at the event were the Chairperson of USU's LPPM Prof. Dr. Tulus, Vor Dipl Math, M.Si., PhD, Representatives of the Medan City Branch Quarter, Head of the New Medan Branch Quarter, the Advisory Council for the Front Group, USU Scout leaders and students. (©ULC)

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Humas - PR

News
Campus Life
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara