MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Inauguration Of Office & Lab Histology-Pharmacology FK USU
Inauguration of Office & Lab Histology-Pharmacology FK USU
Published At
13 October 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Inauguration of Office & Lab Histology-Pharmacology FK USU
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 13 October 2023

I am happy and grateful because, for about ten years, the two departments had to share space to meet work and learning needs," said Prof. Muryanto.

USU PR- The Faculty of Medicine (FK) of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held the inauguration of Office and Laboratory Buildings for the Department of Histology and the Department of Pharmacology and Therapeutics on Tuesday (03/10/2023).

The Office Building and Histology-Pharmacology Laboratory were inaugurated directly by the USU Rector, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si, which was marked by signing the inauguration inscription and cutting the ribbon.

In his speech, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si, welcomed the completion of the Office Building and Histology-Pharmacology Laboratory because the building was abandoned for a long time, and people have been waiting for its completion.

“I am happy and grateful because, for about ten years, the two departments had to share space to meet work and learning needs,” said Prof. Muryanto.

Furthermore, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si, also emphasized the vital role of laboratories as the heart of research, which will boost reputation and increase the role of universities in solving societal problems.

"We all know that the role of the laboratory is very important. Because it does not only function as a support for educational activities," explained Prof. Muryanto.

Finally, the USU Rector hopes for a good synergy between faculty department leaders and laboratory managers since the laboratory heads are now required to have technical competence according to standards, managerial competence, and sociocultural competence.

"I hope the performance and achievements of departments and faculties in producing quality, innovative, and international standard research will increase," said Prof. Muryanto.

The Dean of the Faculty of Medicine, Universitas Sumatera Utara (FK USU), Prof. Dr., dr. Aldy Safruddin Rambe Sp.S(K) explained that once this building is ready, the Department of Histology and Pharmacology and Therapeutics will immediately return to their building despite being neglected for a while. So, it will have a positive impact on education in both departments.

"The first thing is that once we can use this building, we will return the Histology-Pharmacology Building and all the staff rooms to this place," explained Prof. Aldy.

Prof. Dr. dr. Aldy Safruddin Rambe Sp.S(K) hopes that this building can be optimally utilized and equipped with the latest equipment, which will support teachers and students in the Department of Histology and the Department of Pharmacology and Therapeutics to improve the quality of education and research.

"We hope that we can utilize this building to its fullest potential so that the faculty members and students in the Department of Histology and the Department of Pharmacology and Therapeutics can maximize their learning experience," Dr. Aldy said.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Campus Life
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara