MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU And ANRI Signed Public Service Integrity Pact
USU and ANRI Signed Public Service Integrity Pact
Published At
20 June 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU and ANRI Signed Public Service Integrity Pact
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 20 June 2022

"I hope that the presence of Drs Imam Gunarto, M.Hum, on this occasion can increase the motivation of all of us at USU, especially in all faculties, institutions, and work units at the University of North Sumatra, to be more active in reforming and managing the system. In addition, archives in their respective work environments, following the regulations and standards that ANRI has imposed," he said.

USU PR - Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Dr. Muryanto Amin S.SOS., M.Si attended the Socialization of the Declaration of the National Archives Awareness Movement and the Signing of the Integrity Pact at USU with the Archives of the Republic of Indonesia. The event occurred at the USU Student Center Building on Thursday (16/06/2022).

The Chancellor welcomed the arrival of the Head of the National Archives of the Republic of Indonesia (ANRI), Drs. Imam Gunarto, M. Hum, who had the opportunity to attend this event and motivated all involved academics to be more active in reforming and managing the archive system according to ANRI standards.

"I hope that the presence of Drs Imam Gunarto, M.Hum, on this occasion can increase the motivation of all of us at USU, especially in all faculties, institutions, and work units at the University of North Sumatra, to be more active in reforming and managing the system. In addition, archives in their respective work environments, following the regulations and standards that ANRI has imposed," he said.

Dr. Muryanto Amin hopes that a better public information service system can be realized through the momentum of signing the integrity pact. And can manifest USU as one of the benchmarks for the best universities in Indonesia, Asia, and the world.

"We will all be able to realize a better public information service system with the support of all parties and realize the University of North Sumatra as one of the best university barometers, not only in Indonesia but also in Asia and the world," he said.

On the same occasion, Drs. Imam Gunarto, M. Hum, as the Head of ANRI explained the importance of archive management, especially in the university environment. It is intended that every decision-making and administrative process can run well.

In addition, he also added that archives function to ensure the preservation of university memories that can be used for learning by students, lecturers, and the wider community.

"It is important that university archives are managed properly because the first is so that the decision-making process, the administrative process from planning to supervision, can run well because it is carried out on an archive basis," said Imam.

In the end, he hopes that USU can create an office that is orderly archives with the commitment of all leaders at USU and the Head of USU Archives will receive support in terms of human resources, financing, and infrastructure.

"Of course, with the commitment of the leadership throughout USU, that is archive management, the control of the archives will be faster. And the head of the USU Archives will get support from aspects of human resources, financing, infrastructure, and so on," he said.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Collaboration
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara