MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Economics And Business
Doctoral Program In Accounting Science
Doctoral Program
Accounting Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Doctoral Program in Accounting Science at Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is an advanced educational program designed to prepare future academics through a thorough education in accounting research. This doctoral program aims to equip students with the necessary skills to conduct accounting research independently, make significant contributions to the development of accounting science, and solve problems related to the accounting field.

With the vision of "Becoming an excellent and competitive accounting program in ASEAN by 2030," it is expected that graduates of this program will become skilled academics and important contributors to the development of accounting and bring innovative ideas that can shape the future direction of this field. Students who complete this study program will be awarded a doctoral degree (Dr.).

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

dok-akuntansi@usu.ac.id

Doctoral Program in Accounting Science

Accredited Very Good

No. 672/DE/A.5/AR.10/VIII/2023

Vision of Doctoral Program in Accounting Science

Become a study program that excels and can compete in Accounting in ASEAN in 2030.

Mission of Doctoral Program in Accounting Science

Education

Organizing a quality education process that is competency-oriented and development of accounting science.

Research

Organizing process quality education and competency-oriented and knowledge development accounting.

Devotion

Carrying out service activities and community service with concrete actions and to the community's needs.

Cooperation

Organizing cooperation with several domestic and foreign stakeholders, especially in accounting.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Government Accounting Concentration

Financial Accounting Concentration

Managerial Concentration

Contact Us
Doctoral Program in Accounting Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

JL. Prof T. M. Hanafiah, Kampus USU (Fakultas Ekonomi dan Bisnis, Gedung Pascasarjana Ilmu Akuntansi) Padang Bulan, Kec. Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20155

(+62) 61 8213250 / (061) 8218532

dok-akuntansi@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara