MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Social Science And Political Science
Undergraduate Program In Public Administration Science
Undergraduate Program
Public Administration Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

With an A accreditation rating, the Undergraduate Program in Public Administration Science becomes the academic unit that executes the management of public organizations, such as human resources, performance management, local government systems, leadership, financial administration, public policy, etc.

With an exceptional lineup of nationally certified teaching staff, students are provided with knowledge of the state administration system, local government, and bureaucracy as well as skills to comprehensively manage various types of organizations and the ability to make strategic decisions. Graduates have broad career prospects, including politicians, government consultants, activists, journalists, researchers, and educators.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

fisip@usu.ac.id

Undergraduate Program in Public Administration Science

Accredited Excellent

No. 1234/SK/BAN-PT/Ak.KP/S/IV/2023

Vision of Undergraduate Program in Public Administration Science

Becoming a Public Administration Study Program that excels in mastering, developing, and implementing development administration, public service management, and ethical and innovative public policy at the global level in 2022

Mission of Undergraduate Program in Public Administration Science

Developing Education

Implement and design education in public policy, public service management, and development administration.

Developing Research

Conduct research and scientific publications in public policy, public service management, and development administration.

Public Service

Conduct research and scientific publications in public policy, public service management, and development administration.

Information Center

Build a center for information, research, and development of public policy, public service management, and development administration for the government, private sector, and community.

Global

Developing organizational capacity and study program networks at the regional and international levels.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Public Policy

Public Service Management

Government Administration

Institutional Development

Contact Us
Undergraduate Program in Public Administration Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Dr. A. Sofian No. 1A Kampus USU Padang Bulan, Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara

(+62) 618211965

fisip@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara