MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Faculty Of Medicine's 71st Anniversary Ceremony
USU Faculty of Medicine's 71st Anniversary Ceremony
Published At
19 September 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Faculty of Medicine's 71st Anniversary Ceremony
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 19 September 2023

The world of medicine continues to develop, driven by technological innovation, and the latest research, and the Faculty of Medicine must always dare to innovate to produce graduates who can think critically, innovate, and collaborate in the era of globalization, "said Prof. Fidel

USU PR-Faculty of Medicine (FK) of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held its 71st Anniversary Ceremonial on Tuesday, (29/08/2023).

USU Secretary Prof. Dr. dr. Muhammad Fidel Ganis Siregar, M. Ked (OG), Sp. OG (K)-Fer, in his remarks said that FK USU since its inception has become a pioneer of enthusiasm and strong determination to participate in providing the best health services for the community.

Technological innovation and the latest research encourage the world of medicine to continue to develop. Therefore, Prof. Fidel urged the Faculty of Medicine to always dare to provide innovation and produce graduates who can think critically, innovate, and collaborate.

"The world of medicine continues to develop, driven by technological innovation, the latest research and. The Faculty of Medicine must always dare to innovate to produce graduates who can think critically, innovate, and collaborate in the era of globalization," said Prof. Fidel.

One of these technological developments can have an impact on the way medical information works. With existing technology, medical information can be accessed easily, even allowing patients to have more knowledge of their conditions. This phenomenon requires medical personnel to be effective educators and involve patients in making decisions about their health.

"This requires medical personnel to become effective educators and collaborators and involve patients in making decisions about their health," said Prof. Fidel.

In improving the quality of education at FK USU, Prof. Fidel said that of the 18 study programs owned, 12 study programs have been accredited Superior (A Superior).

On the other hand, on the occasion of the opening of the FK USU open session, the Dean of FK, Dr. dr. Aldy Safruddin Rambe Sp.S (K)., Ka. said that to succeed in the USU Strategic Plan (Renstra) 2020-2024 which focuses on campus internationalization, the Faculty of Medicine implemented a vision "Realizing the Faculty of Medicine of Universitas Sumatera Utara to become an institution that organizes quality medical education in 2024, towards a center of excellence in tropical medicine and preventive oncology in Southeast Asia in supporting the vision of Universitas Sumatera Utara to become an educational institution with a competitive field of excellence TALENTA".

"The Faculty of Medicine needs to take steps to anticipate and improvise by strengthening the internationalization chain characterized by the potential of USU's local advantages," said the Dean of FK.

On the same occasion, Dr. Aldy said that FK USU has established collaborations in education, research, health services, and innovation with 62 domestic universities and 32 foreign universities.

Carrying the theme "Unlimited Level in Opthalmological Science" abbreviated as ULOS, the chairman of the committee for the 71st Anniversary of FK USU, Prof. Dr. dr. Masitha Dewi Sari, M.Ked (Oph), Sp.M (K) said that the theme focuses on the vision and mission of FK USU. 5 activities take place in enlivening the 71st anniversary starting from the end of the month, namely scientific activities in the form of a symposium "Holistic Approach for Better Health" and a vision examination workshop. Sports and art activities such as soccer matches, basketball, fun walk, FK Idol, and so on. Bazaar activities, community service, and appreciation to the academic community of FK USU.

"So we have the ULOS (Unlimited Level in Opthalmological Science) theme, meaning that we know that eye health does not stand alone, but it will join other parts," explained Prof. Masitha.

Prof. Masitha further explained that on August 12, community service was held at Djoelham Hospital. Then on August 13, community service was carried out in the independent field of Binjai by involving 11 departments. From this activity, FK USU has served 635 patients.

The Ceremonial Anniversary of FK USU this time invited the former Ministry of Health in 2019 Prof. Dr. dr. Nila Djuwita Faried Anfasa Moeloek, Sp.M (K). In his scientific oration, he talked about eye health, cataracts, diabetic retinopathy, and the importance of children's eye health.

Alumni are an important component of FK USU. dr. Rehulina Ginting, M.Kes as one of the alumni representatives said that FK USU must be sensitive and beneficial to the environment. As part of higher education, FK USU must not only carry out the Tri Dharma of higher education but must also implement and benefit science.

"Because as part of higher education, the Faculty of Medicine USU must carry out the Tri Dharma of higher education," said Dr. Rehulina.

For information, the handover of the 71st Anniversary of FK USU souvenirs by the Dean of FK for retired lecturers and the submission of a charter by the USU Secretary, Prof. Dr. dr. Muhammad Fidel Ganis Siregar, M. Ked (OG), Sp. OG (K)-Fer, Vice Rector II, Muhammad Arifin Nasution, S.Sos., M.SP, Vice Rector III, Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan, S.Si., M.Si., Apt to the Superior Accreditation study program.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Dies Natalis
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara