MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Confirms 2,211 Graduates For The Third Period
USU Confirms 2,211 Graduates for the Third Period
Published At
06 June 2024
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Confirms 2,211 Graduates for the Third Period
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 06 June 2024

"The industry requires prospective workers who continuously innovate and uphold the principle of certainty while avoiding mistakes," said USU Rector.

USU PR—Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Held a Graduation Ceremony for 2,211 Graduates in the Third Period of the Academic Year 2023/2024. The graduation event took place in the USU Auditorium, both physically and electronically, on May 22nd and 22nd, 2024. It was also available for streaming on USU's official YouTube channel.

This graduation carries the theme "Future Skill and Microcredential: Global Disruption and Industry Demand from University Graduates," highlighting the importance of future skills and microcertifications amidst global challenges.

In his address, USU Rector Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., expressed gratitude to all parties who supported this graduation event, both physically present and following via streaming.

"Ladies and Gentlemen and Dear Graduates, as we begin this graduation ceremony, we extend our congratulations to you, the graduates of Universitas Sumatera Utara who are being conferred today. May the knowledge you have acquired during your academic journey serve as a valuable asset for your life," said Prof. Muryanto.

The USU Rector also expressed his hope that the education received would assist the graduates in obtaining desired employment or continuing their education to higher levels to enhance their competencies and skills.

In this graduation, USU graduated 2,211 students, comprising 859 males (38.85%) and 1,352 females (61.15%). To this date, USU has graduated a total of 256,576 individuals. Among the graduates, several have graduated with honors or cum laude, a commendable achievement.

The USU Rector also addressed the challenges universities face in the era of global disruption. He emphasized the importance of future skills and micro-credentials in facing rapid changes triggered by the fourth industrial revolution, climate change, the COVID-19 pandemic, and international conflicts.

"The industry requires prospective workers who continuously innovate and uphold the principle of certainty while avoiding mistakes," he said.

The USU Rector explained that global disruption has altered human life patterns, requiring universities to be responsive and adaptive in preparing their graduates.

"Future skills need to be the basis of higher education institutions producing their graduates," emphasized Prof. Muryanto.

Furthermore, the USU Rector added that Indonesian universities must quickly respond to the development of new skills in the industrial world, such as AI (Artificial Intelligence), Blockchain, Robotic Process Automation, and Social Media Marketing.

Hence, the USU Rector stated that USU has implemented various program adjustments over the last three years to produce alumni with the future skills needed by the job market. The Tri Dharma (three pillars of higher education) services provided by USU are part of this effort, encompassing education, research, and community service.

"The policy of Universitas Sumatera Utara as a World Class University was chosen to ensure that the learning process meets international standards," he explained.

In efforts to achieve global recognition, USU has achieved various milestones, including ranking 1,201 in the QS World University Rankings (WUR) and ranking 401-450 in the QS Asia University Rankings (AUR) in 2024. Other rankings include 1,501 in THE World University Rankings (WUR) and 501-600 in THE Asia University Rankings (AUR) in 2024.

USU is also implementing the Enhancing Quality Education for International University Recognition (EQUITY) program to achieve a ranking among the top 500 world-class universities.

"The improvement process of assessments from various national and international agencies strengthens the fact that the Tri Dharma adaptation at Universitas Sumatera Utara is proceeding according to the planned schedule," said Prof. Muryanto.

The USU Rector added that several indicators have shown progress faster than planned.

In the third period of the Strategic Plan for 2026-2030, USU will establish its position as an Innovative & Entrepreneurial University.

"USU Future Design is crafted with Transformation, Sustainable, Impactful strategies," explained Prof. Muryanto.

The USU Rector explained that USU's Tri Dharma products, including alumni, will be transformed through continuous innovation, interdisciplinary collaboration, and open-mindedness, resulting in an impact on Indonesia's welfare.

The Rector emphasized that Universitas Sumatera Utara, which manages 48,188 students and has produced 256,576 alumni, must continue to manage global disruption with responsiveness and reliable adaptive capabilities.

"We need the assistance of the entire community to accelerate the transformation of Universitas Sumatera Utara into a respected university on the international stage," said Prof. Muryanto.

The USU Rector concluded his address by praying that USU graduates would become transformative, responsive, and adaptive learners who can meet the future skills required by the industrial world.

"Ladies and Gentlemen and dear graduates, these are the important messages we convey on this joyous occasion. Once again, we congratulate all the graduates. We are proud of your achievements in completing your studies on time at Universitas Sumatera Utara. We always pray that all USU alumni will successfully fulfill two mandates at once: working for humanity and contributing to the progress of the nation and the Republic of Indonesia," he concluded.

In line with the graduation theme, an interview with one of the top graduates, Desi Gabriella Pinam, from the Management Program class of 2020, provides an insightful view of her academic experience. Desi, who graduated cum laude, shared her impressions of her study period at USU.

"The impressions during the study are very enjoyable, even though our 2020 class was welcomed online due to the COVID-19 pandemic. However, after several semesters, we finally could experience face-to-face lectures again," said Desi.

Farhan Alpani Pane, a graduate of the Law Program in 2020, also shared his impressions and experiences during his studies. He explained that there were many good impressions during his studies. According to him, although studying has ups and downs, thankfully, there are more ups. Farhan felt happy because he could meet good friends and inspirational lecturers and experience many beautiful moments during his studies.

“The important thing is to start first. Don't wait for the right time; just start doing it first. Because when we start, Insha Allah, everything will be made easier. Sometimes, we get stuck not because we are incapable but because we haven't tried or started. So the point is, let's start first. Especially for students who are in the thesis, start compiling the thesis. Don't be lazy; don't be afraid to meet the supervisor. The point is, just start first,” Farhan said.

Author: bambang riyanto - staf humas

Interviewee: Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos, M.Si - Rektor USU

Photographer: Mhd Andriansyah - Staf Humas

News
Alumni & Career
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara