MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Law
Undergraduate Program In Law Studies
Undergraduate Program
Law Studies
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Law, as a study of the set of rules made and applied by social or government institutions to regulate societal behavior and realize justice, is an essential foundation for forming a civilized social order. Since its establishment in 1954, the Undergraduate Program in Law Studies of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) has proven its success in producing qualified legal experts, such as lawyers, prosecutors, notaries, and legal diplomats, who participate in various parts of Indonesia. The contribution of law students cannot be ignored either. They have become the pillar in making the USU Faculty of Law (FH) one of the leading law faculties in Indonesia by 2022, based on data from THE AUR. The program focuses on teaching various branches of law, such as civil law, criminal law, constitutional law, and other fields.

Assisted by qualified lecturers, this study program is determined to educate students to become a competent generation in the field of law, as well as instill the values of Pancasila as the foundation in the life of the nation and state. After completing this program, students will obtain a Bachelor of Law (S.H.) degree, which is clear proof of their achievement in understanding and applying legal studies in various contexts of life.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

fh@usu.ac.id

Undergraduate Program in Law Studies

Accredited Unggul

No. 6183/SK/BAN-PT/Ak.Ppj/S/X/2024

Vision of Undergraduate Program in Law Studies

To become a leading Undergraduate Program in Law Studies that produces quality, moral, and professional graduates and has competitive advantages, both at national and international levels.

Mission of Undergraduate Program in Law Studies

Education and Research

To organize competency-based legal education and research that emphasizes problem solving in accordance with the trends in national and international legal developments trends.

Improve Learning Quality

To improve the quality of the learning and teaching process through building facilities, infrastructure, educational facilities, career development, as well as improving the welfare of lecturers and staff.

Lecturer and Student Involvement

To involve lecturers and students in scientific activities related to problem solving and legal development at the national and international levels in accordance with their competencies.

Cooperation

To build a cooperation network in order to enhance competitiveness with government agencies, private parties, and non-governmental organizations.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Civil Law

Criminal Law

International Law

Economic Law

Constitutional Law

State Administrative Law

Contact Us
Undergraduate Program in Law Studies
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Universitas No.19, Padang Bulan, Kec. Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20155

(061)-8213571

fh@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara