MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Dentistry
Specialist Program In Oral And Maxillofacial Surgery
Spesialist-1 Program
Specialist Program in Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Specialists Program in Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery is a study program that explores surgical science in mouth, face, and jaw within the scope of dentistry. This program covers the management of abnormalities, injuries, and diseases of the oral cavity, jaws, and related structures through promotive, preventive, curative, and rehabilitative approaches. The main goal of this program is to restore the function, aesthetics, and health of the craniofacial area and improve the quality of life of patients with problems in the area.

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

Specialist Program in Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery

Accredited Minimum

No. SK 1879/UN5.1.R/SK/PRS/2024

Vision of Specialist Program in Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery

By the year 2030, to become a Specialist Program in Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery that produces ethically and scientifically competent graduates in the field of Craniomaxillofacial Deformities, utilizing technology and natural resource-based materials through an innovative holistic approach, and capable of competing at the global level

Mission of Specialist Program in Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery

BINTANG Characters

Implementing the BINTANG character values (Devotion to God Almighty, innovation and integrity, as well as resilience and wisdom) in producing ethically grounded graduates.

Professional Graduates

Conducting the Specialist Program in Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery using a standardized curriculum to produce professional graduates with a global outlook in the field of Craniomaxillofacial Deformities.

Research Based on Technology and Natural Resources

Conducting research in the field of Craniomaxillofacial Deformities by utilizing technology and natural resource-based materials to enhance the global potential and contribution of graduates, as well as to produce research outputs that benefit public health improvement and the advancement of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery science.

Community Service

Carrying out community service integrated with education and research in the field of Craniomaxillofacial Deformities through the utilization of technology and natural resource-based materials, thereby helping to address health issues and providing the best professional services to the community.

Strategic Collaboration

Establishing strategic partnerships with various stakeholders both domestically and internationally to support the implementation of the Tridharma (Three Pillars of Higher Education).

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Contact Us
Specialist Program in Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery
Universitas Sumatera Utara

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara