MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Collaborates With Ministry Of Trade To Present Minister Of Trade In Public Lecture
USU Collaborates with Ministry of Trade to Present Minister of Trade in Public Lecture
Published At
27 December 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
USU Collaborates with Ministry of Trade to Present Minister of Trade in Public Lecture
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Friday, 27 December 2024

Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) signed a Memorandum of Understanding and Memorandum of Agreement with the Indonesian Ministry of Trade, which was carried out by the Minister of Trade of the Republic of Indonesia, Dr. Budi Santoso, M.Si, and Vice Rector III of USU Prof. Dr. Apt Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan, M.Si. The event, coupled with a public lecture by the Minister of Trade, took place on Tuesday (17/12/2024) at the USU Auditorium.

The event was opened with remarks from Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan, M.Si., as Vice Rector III for Research, Community Service, and USU Cooperation. In her remarks, Prof. Poppy explained that the cooperation covers education, research, and community service, which aligns with the tri dharma of higher education.

 

“The areas of cooperation that will be carried out by USU and the Ministry of Trade of the Republic of Indonesia include education, research, community service, implementation of Merdeka Belajar-Kampus Merdeka, entrepreneurship, MSMEs, and other fields further agreed upon by both parties,” she said.

Prof. Poppy hopes that cooperation between state institutions in charge of trade affairs and USU can benefit both them and the wider community, nation, and state. Meanwhile, the MoA was signed by the Dean of the Faculty of Vocational Studies, Prof. Dr. Isfenti Sadalia, SE, ME, and the Dean of the USU Faculty of Law, Dr. Mahmul Siregar, SH, M.Hum. The MoA was also signed by Dr. Rusmin Amin, M.Si, as Director General of Consumer Protection and Trade Order.

After signing the cooperation documents, the Minister of Trade gave a public lecture entitled “Indonesian Trade Policy,” which is relevant in the current global context. In his lecture, Dr. Budi Santoso highlighted the strategic role of the trade sector as a driver of the national economy, an instrument of international diplomacy, and an effort to alleviate poverty. He also emphasized the importance of students understanding national strategic issues to become competent and globally competitive leaders.

Dr Budi Santoso said that Indonesia's trade policy focuses on increasing exports, stabilizing imports, and creating an inclusive and sustainable trade ecosystem. “We continue to strive to strengthen Indonesia's role in the international arena through strategic trade diplomacy while supporting the empowerment of MSMEs to compete in the global market,” he said.

As a higher education institution, Vice Rector III emphasized that the Universitas Sumatera Utara is committed to supporting nation-building through education, research, and community service. “We realize the importance of collaboration between academics, government, and industry players in creating policies that are evidence-based and have a positive impact on the wider community. We hope that this public lecture can increase the insight and knowledge of students as the nation's next generation about the importance of understanding national strategic issues, including trade policies so that one day they can become competent and globally competitive leaders,” he concluded.

Also present were Vice Rector V for Asset and Business Management Dr. Ir Luhut Sihombing, MP, Secretary of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Prof Dr. Muhammad Fidel Ganis Siregar, M.Ked(OG), Sp. O.G, Subsp. F.E.R, Director General of Domestic Trade Moga Simatupang, S.Sos, Director of Metrology Sri Astuti, S.Si, M.SE, and Director General of National Export Development Mardiana Listyowati, SH, M.SE, as well as several other officials from USU and the Ministry of Trade.

This activity begins a strategic collaboration between USU and the Indonesian Ministry of Trade, covering various programs that will provide tangible benefits for students, lecturers, and the wider community. Through this collaboration, USU demonstrates its commitment to continue supporting quality education and building synergies with various national institutions to realize the vision of sustainable education. (RJ)

News
Headline
SDGs 11
SDGs
SDGs 8
SDGs 16
SDGs 17
SDGs Headline
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara