MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Agriculture
Undergraduate Program In Agricultural And Biosystem Engineering
Undergraduate Program
Agricultural Engineering and Biosystem
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Undergraduate Program in Agricultural and Biosystem Engineering is a study program that focuses on the application of technology and engineering in the agricultural sector. The focus is on planning, designing, and managing systems related to agricultural production and the agricultural environment. It considers environmental impacts, sustainability, and resource efficiency in agricultural practices that support innovations in agricultural technology, increased crop and livestock production, and contribute to food security and environmental sustainability.

This study program has been established since 1964 and is one of the oldest study programs at USU. The curriculum covers various fields of learning, including biosystem mechanical engineering, food processing engineering, and bioinformatics engineering, with a commitment to produce qualified graduates who are able to compete at the global level. Graduates of the Undergraduate Program in Agricultural and Biosystem Engineering have extensive career opportunities in various food industries and manufacturing. After completing this study program, students will obtain a Bachelor of Engineering (S.T.) degree.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

tpb_fp@usu.ac.id

Undergraduate Program in Agricultural and Biosystem Engineering

Accredited Very Good

584/SK/BAN-PT/Ak.KP/S/II/2024

Vision of Undergraduate Program in Agricultural and Biosystem Engineering

To become a superior study program in the field of agricultural engineering and biosystems characterized by local excellence that can compete in the global world order in 2039.

Mission of Undergraduate Program in Agricultural and Biosystem Engineering

Education Organization

Organizing high-quality agricultural engineering and biosystem and community education for all levels of society.

Education Expansion

Expanding educational programs based on the basis of agricultural and biosystem engineering to produce graduates with BINTANG character and the ability to fill the needs of all aspects and roles in agricultural and biosystem engineering activities nationally and internationally.

Research Deepening

Expanding and deepening integrated research for all aspects of agricultural and biosystem engineering in TALENTA.

Direction of Contribution

Directing contributions to all agricultural and biosystem engineering programs for the development of better quality agricultural and biosystem engineering services to communities in plantations, government agencies, banks, and other agricultural and biosystem engineering service places and the development of agricultural engineering arrangements that can develop economic growth to achieve national welfare.

Quality Improvement

Supporting and striving to improve the quality, dedication, and work ethic of agricultural and biosystem engineering professionals in the appreciation and application of agricultural and biosystem engineering care is one of the missions of the universal agricultural and biosystem engineering profession.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Biosystems Engineering

The Food and Agricultural Product Processing Technology

Bioinformatics Engineering

Soil and Water Engineering

Renewable Energy and Electrical Biosystems Engineering

Contact Us
Undergraduate Program in Agricultural and Biosystem Engineering
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Dr. A. Sofian No. 3, Kampus USU, Padang Bulan, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20155

+62618213181

tpb_fp@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara