MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Improves The Quality Of Scientific Writing And Publishing
USU Improves the Quality of Scientific Writing and Publishing
Published At
05 October 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Improves the Quality of Scientific Writing and Publishing
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 05 October 2021

In the process of running this institution, the Rector advised the lecturers to involve students. "Like USUTV, they collaborate with students to become experts in the broadcasting field. It has been going well," he said.

USU PUBLIC RELATIONS – The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is trying to improve the quality of scientific writing and publishers. The scheme for establishing a scientific writing institution was also initiated by the Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin to boost the quality improvement.

In order to improve the manufacturing scheme, the Rector accommodated the ideas and aspirations of the best scientific writers and lecturers, Thursday (9/29/2021) at Inter Coffee.

Accompanied by Vice Rector III Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Z Hasibuan, the Rector explained that currently USU has conducted clusters (mapping) of lecturers who are actively writing.

"The first cluster is young lecturers who have just written, then the second cluster is lecturers who write in ordinary journals, until which lecturers write in Q1 journals," he said.

The scientific writing institute, he added, would become a center for lecturers who focused on the quality of writing. "So later there will be assistance, starting from looking for data, writing to how to submit it," he said.

Currently USU is preparing a comfortable place with a co-working space system. The lecturers gather and discuss with each other, this place will also become a digital area that is supported by the best digitization system.

In addition, the Rector hopes that this institution will be able to produce publishers or journals with international standards belonging to USU. "So now the focus is not on quantity but on quality, if we have an international standard journal, it can also become income," he mentioned.

In the process of running this institution, the Rector advised the lecturers to involve students. "Like USUTV, they collaborate with students to become experts in the broadcasting field. It has been going well," he encouraged.

The lecturer with the title of Best Community Service, Onrizal PhD suggested that the existing lecturers' professionalism classification be made according to their expertise. "USU has become a barn for experts, for example, if in my field, someone wants to find an expert about elephants then USU provides it," he said.

Onrizal also hopes that the team that will run the scientific writing institution is a solid team. "I totally agree that now is the time to focus on quality," he encouraged. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - PR

News
Education
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara