MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Diplomats Go To Campus To Commemorate 75 Years Of Diplomacy
Diplomats Go to Campus to Commemorate 75 Years of Diplomacy
Published At
05 June 2024
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Diplomats Go to Campus to Commemorate 75 Years of Diplomacy
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 05 June 2024

"It is not only aimed at commemorating the relationship between the two countries but also to strengthen cooperation and build communication and mutual respect," said Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si.

USU PR—Commemorating 75 years of diplomatic relations between the Republic of Indonesia and the United States, Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), in collaboration with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Indonesia's American division, organized Diplomats Go to Campus with the theme "Diversity, Democracy, Prosperity." The event occurred at USU's Digital Learning Center (DLCB) building on Friday (May 17).

The event was attended by USU Rector, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos, M.Si., and two speakers, Muhamad Benyamin Abiyoga, a Foreign Service Officer at the Directorate of American Affairs I - MoFA Indonesia, and Kristy Mordhorst, the Deputy Principal Officer of the U.S. Consulate in Medan. The participants included students from various universities in Medan.

In his speech, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., stated that the event was intended to commemorate the relationship between the two countries, strengthen cooperation, and build good and respectful communication.

"It is not only aimed at commemorating the relationship between the two countries but also to strengthen cooperation and build communication and mutual respect," said Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si.

Muhamad Benyamin Abiyoga stated that with the development of this relationship, Indonesia and the United States are expanding and deepening their diplomatic ties by involving more stakeholders.

"Through this cooperation, Indonesia and the United States are expanding and deepening their cooperation and involving more stakeholders," said Muhamad Benyamin Abiyoga.

In this regard, Muhamad Benyamin Abiyoga expressed that students interested in diplomacy can actively participate in developing skills, expanding networks, and creating works of art for involvement in diplomacy. He was impressed by the students and hoped for greater engagement with the younger generation.

"Always stay current with current issues, develop yourself, expand your network. We have an internship program at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and you can also write articles. I think it is a good input for us to be more engaging with these young friends," said Muhamad Benyamin Abiyoga.

Similarly, Kristy Mordhorst hoped this event would provide insights into the importance of the relationship between the United States and Indonesia. She stated that the event's theme was chosen about the strengths that both countries possess in achieving prosperity.

"I hope the participants gain a better understanding of the U.S.-Indonesia relationship and how important it is. We have a very diverse population, we are the largest democracies, that's our strength, and our goal is to ensure the welfare of our people," explained Kristy Mordhorst.

Author: bambang riyanto - staf humas

Interviewee: Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos, M.Si - Rektor USU

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Staf Humas

News
SDGs
SDGs 16
SDGs 17
Collaboration
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara