MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Corporate With Partner, USU Holds Virtual Career Expo
Corporate with Partner, USU Holds Virtual Career Expo
Published At
27 May 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Corporate with Partner, USU Holds Virtual Career Expo
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 27 May 2022

“This activity is very important for USU graduates. Through this activity, we bring together prospective workers with the job market effectively. The presence of the company's HRD at this meeting also adds to the meaning of the activity so that prospective workers can choose which company to apply for later," said Doli.

USU PR- The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) continues to pay attention to its graduates who will enter the job market. This can be seen with the holding of The 3rd USU Virtual Career Expo 2022 on May 24-25, 2022. USU graduates enthusiastically welcomed the online activity.

Present at the opening of the forum, USU's Director of Student Achievement and Alumni Relations Doli Muhammad Jafar Dalimunthe SE., M.Si, representing USU's Vice-Rector I, officially opened the activity. He expressed his appreciation for the organization of the event.

“This activity is very important for USU graduates. Through this activity, we effectively bring together prospective workers with the job market. The presence of the company's HRD at this meeting also adds to the meaning of the activity so that prospective workers can choose which company to apply for later," said Doli.

Doli also explained that USU continues to encourage the career acceleration of USU graduates. In this regard, USU continues to communicate and strengthen cooperation with various corporate partners. It is hoped that more USU graduates will be absorbed in the future.

“USU is committed to maintaining and enhancing cooperative relationships with corporate partners. We see these corporate partners as partners for a symbiotic mutualism, mutually beneficial relationship. Of course, to fulfill this, we will continue to develop the abilities of our students so that they can compete in the world of work,” he explained.

In the future, Doli said that the cooperation with the company will not only be limited to the implementation of the Career Expo, but will be developed in a wider sector. The company's partners are potential parties for USU to implement all of its strategic programs.

As is known, USU is intensively implementing the Independent Learning-Independent Campus (MBKM) program as a step to improve student abilities. Company partners are essential in the program as a forum for students to practice in the world of work.

In addition, USU also requires corporate partners to meet the Key Performance Indicators (KPI) targets. One of the indicators is the time period for graduates to get a job after completing their studies, and the minimum income is in accordance with the company's regional wage standards.

Present at the event were the Human Resource Development (HRD) of partner companies, the Person in Charge of the USU Employment Service Center (PJK), Ami Dilham, Moderator Ricky Januar, as well as the participants who joined virtually.

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - -

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Special - -

News
Collaboration
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara