MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Rector Visit 2025 At Faculty Of Engineering
Rector Visit 2025 at Faculty of Engineering
Published At
18 January 2025
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Rector Visit 2025 at Faculty of Engineering
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Saturday, 18 January 2025

“The main foundation is about policy. This policy conducts activities based on our needs,” he said.

Public Relations USU—Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos, M.Si., Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), held a Working Visit at various faculties within USU. This visit is often carried out every year. This time, the Rector visited the Faculty of Engineering (FT USU) in the Engineering Hall on Wednesday (15/01/2025).

 

The Working Visit, previously named Rector Greeting, aims to strengthen the relationship between university leaders and each faculty member, listen directly to aspirations, and monitor each faculty member's development and needs of each faculty member.

 

In his remarks, Prof. Muryanto said that lecturers are the most vital element in shaping the golden generation in 2045. To achieve this target, lecturers must improve their quality. He also highlighted the need for adaptation to the new government, especially in aligning higher education policies with the national vision.

 

“The main foundation is about policy. This policy conducts activities based on our needs,” he said.

 

The Dean of FT, Prof. Dr. Ir. Fahmi, S.T., M.Sc., IPM, said that if the Faculty of Engineering had made many achievements in various fields in the previous year, then this year it would maintain them. One target to encourage these achievements is to provide course grade conversion to students who participate in competitions, both at the national and international levels.

 

“Of course, we provide the widest possible space for creativity. Every competition can be converted into credits,” he said.

 

Vice Dean I of FT USU, Prof. Dr. Ir. Renita Manurung, M.T., added that this year, Engineering has a new program, namely giving awards to each of the best-set organizations in the engineering faculty. This program encourages creativity, innovation, and organizational spirit among students.

 

“This year, there is an award program for the best student organization. So the association is a motivation and encourages activities that include competitions,” he added.

 

Lastly, the Faculty of Engineering has previously received the highest number of publications. This year, each lecturer is targeted for at least two publications. This will also be a driving factor in achieving superior accreditation and international accreditation.

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara