MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Reconnecting IKA FEB USU Alumni Traces And Inspiration
Reconnecting IKA FEB USU Alumni Traces and Inspiration
Published At
04 September 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
Reconnecting IKA FEB USU Alumni Traces and Inspiration
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Wednesday, 04 September 2024

“The Rector has a performance contract with the Ministry, one of the main points of which relates to alumni. So, alumni involvement in activities like this is very important to support faculty achievements, said Paidi”

USU PR - In the framework of the 2nd anniversary of the Management, the Alumni Association of the Faculty of Economics and Business, Universitas Sumatera Utara (IKA FEB USU) held a “Reconnecting Alumni Association” event. It took place from Thursday-Sunday (22-25/08/2024).

This event aims to strengthen the bond between alumni and students, as well as strengthen collaboration between IKA FEB USU and the faculty. This event is part of the annual agenda, which is specifically organized larger this year.

Vice Dean III FEB USU Paidi, S.E., M.Si. expressed his gratitude for the excellent participation of alumni and general participants in his speech. He also stated that the event with the topic “Reconnect” was very relevant, considering that the Faculty of Economics at USU currently really needs the support of alumni.

“The Rector has a performance contract with the Ministry, one of the main points of which relates to alumni. So, alumni involvement in activities like this is very important to support faculty achievements,” said Paidi.

During the four days of implementation, the Reconnecting activity will be filled with various events that not only involve alumni but are also open to the public. Committee Chair, Irgi Adyatma Fahrezy, explained that the series of events includes a bazaar that takes place every day, workshops, beauty classes, gymnastics, competitions, and entertainment from guest artists.

“We also held tournaments, karaoke competitions, and esports as part of the effort to reunite alumni with students and the academic community,” said Irgi.

Edi Faisal Harahap, Vice Head of Research of IKA FEB USU, explained that this event is an annual agenda held to call back alumni to campus and reminisce about their college days. Another goal is to facilitate collaboration between alumni who are now spread across various industrial fields, and FEB USU.

“We want to invite alumni to return to campus, see the latest developments, and jointly build the USU Faculty of Economics,” Edi said.

Furthermore, the Secretary of IT and Data Analytics of IKA FEB USU, Zeinnuri, hopes that this activity can become a routine agenda that continues in the future to bring together alumni who are scattered in various regions. He also mentioned that collaboration between alumni and faculty is very important to push the USU Faculty of Economics towards more global achievements.

“We have organized international seminars, and national seminars, and collaborated with the rector for major activities such as the Rector's Cup in Jakarta. Hopefully, in the future, the name of USU and the Faculty of Economics will be increasingly recognized at the global level,” concluded Zeinnuri.

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara