MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Uniqlo And USU Collaboration Presents Direct Career Opportunities For Students
Uniqlo and USU Collaboration Presents Direct Career Opportunities for Students
Published At
22 April 2025
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Uniqlo and USU Collaboration Presents Direct Career Opportunities for Students
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 22 April 2025

“This program is in line with USU's commitment to not only be a place of academic learning, but also a place for character building and skills development needed by the industrial world,” said Prof. Poppy.

 

 

Public Relations USU - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) hosted the “Uniqlo Goes to Campus” program, an initiative of PT Fast Retailing Indonesia (Uniqlo) in collaboration with Cake Indonesia and the USU Research and Innovation Development Agency. This activity took place at the Prof. Dr. Suhadji Hadibroto Hall on Wednesday, (16/04/2025)

 

This program was held for the first time in Medan City, making USU one of the five selected universities in Indonesia as the implementation location. The other four universities are Universitas Indonesia (UI), Institut Teknologi Bandung (ITB), Universitas Gadjah Mada (UGM), and Universitas Brawijaya (UB)

 

In his remarks, Vice Rector III of USU, Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan, S.Si., M.Si., Apt., on behalf of the leadership, expressed his appreciation and gratitude to Uniqlo for the trust given to USU as part of this program. He also warmly welcomed the presence of the leaders of PT Fast Retailing Indonesia (Uniqlo) and Cake Indonesia, who attended this activity directly. According to her, this program is in line with USU's commitment to be a place of academic learning and character building and skills development needed by the industrial world.

 

“This program is in line with USU's commitment to not only be a place of academic learning, but also a place for character building and skills development needed by the industrial world,” said Prof. Poppy.

 

Through collaboration with Cake Indonesia under the title “Uniqlo Goes to Campus” not only provides educational insights to students, but also opens career opportunities through a direct recruitment process for selected alumni and students. This activity lasted for two days, with the first day filled with company introduction sessions and Focus Group Discussions (FGD), and the second day was filled with direct interview sessions as part of the recruitment selection.

 

In an interview with Mahyudanil Lubis, HR Director of PT Fast Retailing Indonesia (Uniqlo), the company conveyed that it is committed to finding qualified young talents with high enthusiasm for a career in the retail industry, strong fighting power, consistency in self-development, and good adaptability in a dynamic work environment.

 

Furthermore, Mahyudanil also expressed his hope that “Uniqlo Goes to Campus” can continue to be sustainable and reach more universities. He emphasized that collaboration between companies and universities is vital. He hopes that cooperation with USU can continue to be established through various programs in the future, as well as opening up opportunities for the best candidates from USU to join and grow with Uniqlo.

 

“We hope that the cooperation between the company and the university can continue, and more students and alumni will have the opportunity to join and grow with Uniqlo,” said Mahyudanil.

 

News
SDGs
SDGs 1
SDGs 17
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara