MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Faculty Of Pharmacy Celebrates 16th Anniversary
Faculty of Pharmacy Celebrates 16th Anniversary
Published At
17 November 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Faculty of Pharmacy Celebrates 16th Anniversary
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 17 November 2022

Dean of the Faculty of Pharmacy apt. Khairunnisa S.So., M.Pharm., Ph.D. in his speech, he reported on the development of the USU Faculty of Pharmacy after it was officially established in 2006. It was explained that the Faculty of Pharmacy at the age of 16/53 years for the Department of Pharmacy had experienced rapid development both in terms of infrastructure, quality of education staff, educational staff, and cooperation from within and outside the country.

USU PR - The Faculty of Pharmacy and the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Pharmacy Study Program celebrate its 16th and 53rd anniversary. Carrying the theme "Embracing the Future of Pharmacist Era", the celebration of Pharmacy's anniversary began with a senate session taking place in the hall of the 2nd floor of the pharmacy faculty on Friday (11/11/2022).

Dean of the Faculty of Pharmacy apt. Khairunnisa S.So., M.Pharm., Ph.D. in his speech, he reported on the development of the USU Faculty of Pharmacy after it was officially established in 2006. It was explained that the Faculty of Pharmacy at the age of 16/53 years for the Department of Pharmacy had experienced rapid development both in terms of infrastructure, quality of education staff, educational staff, and cooperation from within and outside the country.

The dean said that the dean and study program would improve the achievement of the faculty with several work programs starting from the fields of student affairs, service, and academic research. The Faculty of Pharmacy is ready to target international accreditation for the next 2024 after successfully having 2 excellent accredited study programs, namely the Bachelor of Pharmacy and the Pharmacist Profession.

"Our target is that in 2024 we will get international accreditation, but we have started this step from this second along with the preparations," the Dean of Pharmacy said.

To prepare for this, the Faculty of Pharmacy starts from reforming the curriculum, learning methods, then increasing student achievement, embracing alumni, and conducting national and international research collaborations. The Dean of the Faculty of Pharmacy hopes that the achievements obtained by the Faculty of Pharmacy will be even better.

"I hope that what we aspire to, and what we targetted can be achieved in the future, which can automatically help USU achieve," she said.

USU Vice Rector (WR) III for Research, Community Service, and Collaboration congratulated and was also proud of the achievements of the Faculty of Pharmacy. WR III advised that the Faculty of Pharmacy can maintain all achievements and pharmaceutical lecturers who have innovative products can immediately be commercialized by the Innovation Agency.

"Even with the existing limitations, we are still enthusiastic about getting achievements and maintaining what we have," Prof. Poppy said.

For information, the Celebration of the Anniversary of the Faculty of Pharmacy was continued with a scientific oration which was delivered directly by the Chairperson of the Indonesian Pharmacist Association Central Board apt. Noffendri Roestam, S.Si then continues with the Fun Walk which will be held on Saturday (11/12/2022). (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Dies Natalis
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara