MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Master’s Program In Notary Achieves Excellent Accreditation
USU Master’s Program in Notary Achieves Excellent Accreditation
Published At
04 September 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
USU Master’s Program in Notary Achieves Excellent Accreditation
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Wednesday, 04 September 2024

USU Rector Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si, expressed his appreciation for the study program's hard work in achieving superior accreditation. The Rector hopes that this study program can maintain this accreditation and continue to improve its quality to obtain international accreditation in the future.

USU PR—The USU Faculty of Law Master's Program in Notary has achieved a brilliant achievement by obtaining superior accreditation from the National Accreditation Board for Higher Education (BAN-PT). This achievement was celebrated with a Thanksgiving event on Friday (Aug. 16, 2020) in the study program room.

USU Rector Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si, expressed his appreciation for the study program's hard work in achieving superior accreditation. The Rector hopes that this study program can maintain this accreditation and continue to improve its quality to obtain international accreditation in the future. In addition, Prof. Muryanto Amin also emphasized the importance of careful preparation to achieve this goal.

“I hope this achievement becomes a motivation for all study programs at USU to continue to improve quality and achieve greater achievements,” said the Rector of USU.

In line with the Rector, the Dean of the USU Faculty of Law, Dr. Mahmul Siregar, S.H., M.Hum., explained that the accreditation preparation process lasted for approximately one year. One of the biggest challenges was the non-passing of the Master’s Program in Notary in the previous accreditation monitoring evaluation. After making various improvements to fulfill all the requirements, superior accreditation was finally achieved. The Dean hopes that the achievement of superior accreditation can motivate the entire academic community to continue to improve the quality of education and research.

“Hopefully this achievement can be an inspiration for the entire academic community of the Faculty of Law USU to continue to work and innovate,” said the Dean.

The Head of the Master of Kenotariatan Study Program, Prof. Dr. Hasim Purba, S.H., M.Hum., expressed his gratitude for this achievement and thanked all those who had supported him. He emphasized that the study program will continue to strive to improve the quality of services in order to achieve the goals of the tridarma of higher education.

“We are very grateful for the achievement of this superior accreditation and will continue to strive to improve the quality of legal education at USU,” said Dr. Hasim.

With the achievement of this superior accreditation, the USU Master’s Program in Notary has further strengthened its position as one of the quality legal study programs in Indonesia. In the future, this study program will continue to improve and innovate to achieve the target of international accreditation.

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara