MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Award 2024: An Award Of Achievement For Excellent Academics
USU Award 2024: An Award of Achievement for Excellent Academics
Published At
16 December 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
USU Award 2024: An Award of Achievement for Excellent Academics
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Monday, 16 December 2024

“This USU Award is a form of appreciation for those who have shown extraordinary dedication. Hopefully this award will motivate all of us to continue working and giving our best for the university and society,” said Prof. Muryanto.

USU PR - The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) successfully held the USU Award 2024: Anugerah Prestasi Universitas. This annual event is a momentum of appreciation for lecturers, students, and education personnel (tendik) who have made their best contributions throughout 2024. It took place at the USU Auditorium, Thursday (12/12/2024).

 

USU Award 2024 carries the theme “Inspiring with Joint Achievements”, which is expected to spur the enthusiasm of the academic community in innovating and working. USU Rector, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., in his speech expressed his appreciation to the entire academic community who have contributed to improving the university's reputation at the national and international levels.

 

“This USU Award is a form of appreciation for those who have shown extraordinary dedication. Hopefully, this award will motivate all of us to continue working and giving the best for the university and society,” said Prof. Muryanto.

 

On this occasion, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin also expressed his hope that this award could be a great encouragement for the entire academic community to continue to innovate. He also emphasized that the spirit of togetherness and collaboration is an important key to making USU a university that is recognized at the global level.

 

“Hopefully this award will be a motivation to continue to improve achievements, support USU's vision as a superior university, and contribute to the achievement of Indonesia Emas 2045,” concluded Prof. Muryanto.

 

This event also shows appreciation for the outstanding students who have made USU proud in various competitions. Prof. Dr. dr. Muhammad Fidel Ganis Siregar, M.Ked(OG), Sp.O.G, Subsp.F.E.R., as Secretary of USU, reminded the role of students as agents of change.

 

“Students are the next generation of the nation. Their achievements show great potential that needs to be continuously developed to have a positive impact on society, nation, and state,” he said.

 

In the category of outstanding lecturers and staff, awards were given to eight individuals from various faculties. The Head of USU's Human Resources Bureau, Dra. Syafnita Hanura Silalahi, M.SP, hopes that the number of award recipients will continue to grow in the future.

 

“Hopefully, more lecturers and staff will be interested in participating in this event so that it can further motivate the entire academic community,” she said.

 

Amalia Meutia, M.Psi, Psychologist, who also received an award in the outstanding lecturer category, shared her success tips in balancing her duties as a lecturer and head of public relations. She also encouraged students not to hesitate to take opportunities and face challenges.

 

“Time management and prioritization are key. I believe that achievement is not only about personal accomplishment but also how it can inspire and benefit others,” Amalia said.

 

The USU Award 2024 gives a number of major awards to individuals and groups who have shown outstanding achievements in various fields. The Outstanding Lecturer Award is given to lecturers who contribute excellence in the tridharma of higher education, including education, research, and community service.

 

Meanwhile, Outstanding Education Personnel is an appreciation for educators who have provided the best service in supporting university operations. Outstanding Students are awarded to students who have made achievements at the national and international levels, both in academic and non-academic fields. In addition, the Best Innovation award is given to teams or individuals who create significant innovations that have an impact on the development of science and society.

News
SDGs 4
SDGs
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara