MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Staff In Communication And Public Service, WR II: Let's Transform
USU Staff in Communication and Public Service, WR II: Let's Transform
Published At
30 November 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Staff in Communication and Public Service, WR II: Let's Transform
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 30 November 2021

"The tagline Transformation Towards the Ultimate must be interpreted and realized in action. Transformation towards the best to provide public services in order to create good public management and fulfill good governance," said Muhammad Arifin Nasution.

USU PR - The Human Resources Bureau of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held a Training to Improve Communication Skills and Public Services for Education Personnel at USU to improve bureaucratic reform. This event was held in a hybrid manner at the Central Administration Bureau Building, Wednesday (11/24). The speakers presented came from BNI, Bank Mandiri, BTN and Bank Sumut.

USU Vice Rector (WR) II Muhammad Arifin Nasution, S.Sos., M.S.P., who opened the event, explained that the purpose of this activity is to improve communication and public services within the university.

"The tagline Transformation Towards the Ultimate must be interpreted and realized in action. Transformation towards the best to provide public services in order to create good public management and fulfill good governance," said Muhammad Arifin Nasution.

The former Vice Dean II of USU's FISIP explained that the selected sources were deliberately presented from the banking sector. Because banking services can be used as role models for educational institutions in implementing public service standards.

“The bank has fulfilled good governance and clear public administration. There is good public management that is applied in bank services, they also apply public service well to their customers," he said.

WR II said that through this training, USU is trying to be able to transform according to the service model in banking, such as implementing the 3S, namely greetings, smiles, and greetings to those who need services.

"This is what we will do at USU, we learn from bank friends, sharing this experience can increase our knowledge and we can apply it," he said.

The HR bureau is required to carry out the transformation of organizational culture changes in improving services. According to Arifin, public order needs to be carried out in the transformation process.

“With the sophistication of technology as it is today, it is very easy for stakeholders to submit complaints or complaints. There is a REPORT, if there is a service that is not good at a place, stakeholders can immediately report it,” he explained.

He added that students are one of the stakeholders who can submit complaints to existing services. "So, we will make improvements, we start from the service. The level of service is yours as the spearhead of USU's services," said Arifin to all participants.

"Training activities like this will be carried out routinely by USU to fulfill the mandate of bureaucratic reform and follow the digitalization trend," he concluded. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara