MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Law
Doctoral Program In Law Studies
Doctoral Program
Law Studies
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Doctoral Program in Law Studies of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is the highest level of legal education for higher education. The program focuses on teaching legal science, including legal philosophy, legal theory construction, research, and legal writing, aiming to train academics who can convey legal theories and doctrines to the public through various media.

Graduates of the USU Doctoral Program in Law Studies have a significant opportunity to become competent legal experts, researchers, and state legal officials who will play a crucial role in advancing the legal field in Indonesia. The Doctor (Dr.) degree obtained by students who complete this study program is proof of their dedication and ability to develop legal studies and make a positive contribution to society and the country.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

prodidoktoralilmuhukumusu@gmail.com

Doctoral Program in Law Studies

Accredited Very Good

No. 75/SK/BAN-PT/Ak.Ppj/D/I/2023

Vision of Doctoral Program in Law Studies

To Become a Doctoral Program in Law Studies That Is Excellent, Has Integrity, is Competitive, and Is Able to Apply the Development of Science and Technology in Legal Development, Both National and International.

Mission of Doctoral Program in Law Studies

Quality

To educate scholar cadres of qualified Doctor of Law Studies with a scientific base and responsibility that has national and global competitiveness.

Integrity

To educate scholar cadres of Doctor of Law Studies who have integrity and personality and are able to participate in the process of developing science and technology, as well as socio-cultural developments for the benefit of the nation and state by upholding religious values and morality.

Legal Reasoning

To educate scholar cadres of Doctor of Law Studies with liberation and enlightenment of thinking based on legal reasoning to produce new findings that are beneficial for the application of legal development in Indonesia.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Philosophy of Law

Construction of Legal Theories

Law and Globalization

Contact Us
Doctoral Program in Law Studies
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Universitas No.19, Padang Bulan, Kec. Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20155

0812-6085-5622

prodidoktoralilmuhukumusu@gmail.com

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara