MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Rector Visits FK USU: Encourage Adaptation And Innovation For Improved Performance
USU Rector Visits FK USU: Encourage Adaptation and Innovation for Improved Performance
Published At
18 January 2025
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Rector Visits FK USU: Encourage Adaptation and Innovation for Improved Performance
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Saturday, 18 January 2025

“The world is currently changing very fast, and we must be ready to face these dynamics with innovation and the right response,” said Prof. Muryanto.

Public Relations USU - The Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., continued his annual working visit agenda by visiting the USU Faculty of Medicine (FK). Aiming to monitor faculty performance, provide strategic direction, and ensure the implementation of the Tridarma of Higher Education. Located in the Hall of the Faculty of Medicine on Thursday (01/16/2025).

 

In his remarks, the USU Rector said that policy changes at the ministerial level and global dynamics have created new challenges that need to be anticipated. He highlighted the global economic slowdown, technological transformation, and other issues requiring a quick response.

 

“The world is currently changing very fast, and we must be ready to face these dynamics with innovation and the right response,” said Prof. Muryanto.

 

The USU Rector also emphasized the importance of collaboration between faculties and universities in formulating strategic steps. Faculties are expected to develop programs that are relevant to university policies and community needs. In his direction, the USU Rector emphasized the need for a structured work guide to face global challenges systematically.

 

“We need clear guidelines and work directions to respond effectively to change,” he added.

 

Meanwhile, the Dean of FK USU, Prof. Dr. dr. Aldy Safruddin Rambe, Sp.S(K), explained that the faculty would immediately follow up on the directions delivered by the USU Rector. He mentioned that coordination with the heads of departments and study programs will be carried out to develop strategies that support achieving university targets.

 

“We will immediately formulate strategic steps according to the Chancellor's direction through coordination with the Heads of Departments and Heads of Study Programs,” explained the Dean of FK.

 

In the interview session, the Dean of FK USU also revealed FK USU's performance achievements over the past year. He mentioned that almost all Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) have been met, except for KPI 2, which is related to the Merdeka Learning Campus Merdeka (MBKM) program. The Dean explained that the MBKM program cannot be implemented at the Faculty of Medicine due to the specific nature of education.

 

“Our achievements are quite good, but KPI 2 cannot be fulfilled because FK does not participate in the MBKM program,” said the Dean.

 

The Dean of FK USU added that the faculty will focus on improving performance in other relevant areas, such as strengthening the learning system, research, and community service. He emphasized that although most of last year's targets had been achieved, FK USU remains committed to improving the quality of educational services.

 

“We remain focused on strengthening aspects of learning and research, although most of the targets have been met,” he added.

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara