MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Taking Oath, USU Rector Reminds Pharmacists Role In Society
Taking Oath, USU Rector Reminds Pharmacists Role in Society
Published At
30 November 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Taking Oath, USU Rector Reminds Pharmacists Role in Society
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 30 November 2021

“A pharmacist in carrying out his profession must be responsible for the implementation of pharmaceutical practice. For that reason, pharmacists must take an oath to guarantee the integrity, security and confidentiality of the duties and roles they carry out, according to the religious procedures they adhere to or make promises held by the Pharmacy Colleges in Indonesia which have graduated the pharmacist profession," said USU Rector.

USU PR - Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si, was present and gave a message at the Pharmacist Oath Taking of the USU Faculty of Pharmacy. The activity was held on Thursday (11/18/2021) in the Hall of the USU Faculty of Pharmacy in a hybrid manner, combining online and offline methods. In his remarks, the Rector of USU emphasized the role of pharmacists in improving the level of public health.

According to him, the momentum of taking the pharmacist's oath has a sacred meaning because the oath has consequences for oneself, others who have an impact and to God Almighty. The pharmacist profession is one of the health professions related to the human soul.

“A pharmacist in carrying out his profession must be responsible for the implementation of pharmaceutical practice. For that reason, pharmacists must take an oath to guarantee the integrity, security and confidentiality of the duties and roles they carry out, according to the religious procedures they adhere to or make promises held by the Pharmacy Colleges in Indonesia which have graduated the pharmacist profession," said USU Rector. .

He further emphasized several roles and functions of pharmacists in carrying out their duties in the community. Pharmacists are considered to have a major and no less important role than other health professions.

“As professional health workers, pharmacists must be able to interact with other health workers so that they can provide good quality health services. Pharmacists also act as Decision Makers, based on their scientific competence, must be able to make decisions in health services for the sake of public health and be able to properly evaluate every decision that has been taken, "he said.

Muryanto Amin also encourages pharmacists to increase their role as Life-long-learners or continuously improve the quality of their knowledge in the pharmaceutical and health fields, so that they can provide pharmaceutical services in accordance with developments in the health world.

“The pharmacist also assumes the role of teacher, who is responsible as a teacher or educator, by providing proper education about health to the public. The pharmacist even acts as a communicator, in carrying out his function as a bridge between doctors and patients,” he explained.

In addition, he also encourages organizations and agencies related to pharmacy and pharmacists to continue to guide and assist pharmacists who have just taken their oath. He also hopes that the health industry can absorb these new pharmacists.

"We hope that stakeholders such as the Indonesian Ministry of Health, the POM Agency, the Pharmaceutical Industry and other agencies can take advantage of the knowledge and competence of pharmacists who graduated from the USU Faculty of Pharmacy, to work in the agencies or companies that you lead. We also expect the Regional Board of the Indonesian Pharmacists Association (PD-IAI) to be able to foster these new pharmacists in carrying out their profession in accordance with applicable regulations," he explained.

Taking the oath and appointment of this pharmacist is a graduate in the odd semester of the 2021-2022 academic year. The 30th batch of pharmacists who were sworn in and sworn in today numbered 74 people. With the inauguration of new pharmacists today, from 2006 to 2021, the USU Faculty of Pharmacy has inaugurated 2,705 pharmacists.

Attending the event came from the North Sumatra Provincial Health Office, Medan City Health Office, Indonesian Pharmacists Association Management, Deans, Deputy Deans, Lecturers, and Education Personnel in the USU Faculty of Pharmacy, as well as other invitees. (©ULC)

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara