MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Dentistry
Specialist Program In Orthodontics
Spesialist-1 Program
Specialist Program in Orthodontics
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Specialist Program in Orthodontics is a specialized study program focusing on dental science research on growth and development disorders of the teeth and face (dental and craniofacial) from childhood to adulthood. Established in 1965, the Specialist Program in Orthodontics consists of several courses, such as Diagnosis, Planning, and Patient Management, that require multidisciplinary treatment, such as cleft lip and palate and herbs in Orthodontics.

The vision of this study program is "Making the FKG USU Specialist Program in Orthodontics the best education program in Western Indonesia and regionally in 2025 in producing qualified and professional Orthodontists who have national and regional competitiveness by mastering the latest science, skills, and technology in the field of Orthodontics, having the ability to improve professionalism and being responsive to global changes". Students who have completed this study program will hold the title of Orthodontic Specialist (Sp.Ort.).

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

orthodonsiafkgusu@gmail.com

Specialist Program in Orthodontics

Accredited Very Good

0276/LAM-PTKes/Akr/Spe/IV/2022

Vision of Specialist Program in Orthodontics

Establishing the FKG USU orthodontic specialist dental education program as the best education program in the regional and western region of Indonesia in 2025 in graduating qualified professional orthodontic specialist dentists with national and regional competitiveness by mastering the latest science, skills, and technology in the field of orthodontics, having the ability to improve professionalism and being responsive and responsive to global changes.

Mission of Specialist Program in Orthodontics

Education

Organize an educational process oriented to the development of science and technology and the needs of society in the field of orthodontics to produce orthodontic specialist dentists who are knowledgeable, skilled, democratic and full of responsibility, virtuous following the professional ethics.

Research and Devotion

Conduct research and community service oriented towards the development of science and technology to solve particular problems in the field of orthodontics scientifically as the primary foundation for growing and fostering abilities, mastering problem-solving methods through thinking skills, scientific reasoning, alternative thinking, and the ability to decide on the best course of action.

Service

Implement specialized services in orthodontics through learning experiences in clinics, attending national and international orthodontic courses, journals, and the internet, and utilizing advances in science and technology appropriately to improve specialized services in orthodontics.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Modification of Growth

Multidisciplinary Orthodontic Treatment

Fixed Orthodontic Appliance Techniques

Temporary Anchorage Devices TADs Orthodontic miniscrews

Contact Us
Specialist Program in Orthodontics
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jalan Alumni No. 2 Kampus USU, Medan, Sumatera Utara 20155

(061)-8216131

orthodonsiafkgusu@gmail.com

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara