MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Economics And Business
Doctoral Program In Management Science
Doctoral Program
Management Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Doctoral Program in Management Science at Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is an advanced study program that addresses organizational theory, behavioral science, research paradigms and methodologies, as well as the latest theories and research in various areas of management such as finance, marketing, strategy, human resources, operations, and the latest innovations. The program aims to provide students with an in-depth understanding of current management theories, concepts, and research methodologies. The program consists of lectures and dissertation research with three to five years of study, established in 2009.

Graduates of this program have broad career opportunities, both as professionals in national and multinational companies, as well as academics and researchers in various universities at the national and international levels. With the vision of "Becoming a study program capable of producing graduates who excel and compete in the field of management science at the ASEAN level by 2034," this program encourages students to take advantage of this opportunity with full passion, dedication, and persistence. Upon completing this study program, students will earn a doctoral degree (Dr.).

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

pdimfebusu@gmail.com

Doctoral Program in Management Science

Accredited Excellent

No. 1133/DE/A.5/AR.10/III/2024

Vision of Doctoral Program in Management Science

Become a study program that can provide excellent graduates who can compete in Management Science at the ASEAN level in 2034.

Mission of Doctoral Program in Management Science

Education

Organizing a quality and competency-oriented educational process and developing Management Science.

Research

Conduct research activities to develop and find concepts, models and management theories recognized nationally and internationally.

Service

Organizing service activities and community service with real actions and by community needs.

Collaboration

Organizing cooperation with domestic and foreign agencies, especially in fields related to Management.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Contact Us
Doctoral Program in Management Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Prof. T.M Hanafiah Street, USU Campus, Medan

(061)-8225464

pdimfebusu@gmail.com

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara