MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Vice Rector II Appreciates OJK Public Lecture And Capita
USU Vice Rector II Appreciates OJK Public Lecture and Capita
Published At
17 October 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Vice Rector II Appreciates OJK Public Lecture and Capita
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 17 October 2022

“This public lecture is the right idea to disseminate information about OJK and the capital market. Because the public still lacks education regarding this or lacks information," USU Vice Rector II said.

USU PR- The Financial Services Authority (OJK) conducted an integrated capital market socialization and education to the Universitas Sumatera Utara. This public lecture which aims to provide information about OJK and the capital market was held at the USU Auditorium on Tuesday (10/04//2022).

In this public lecture, the topics discussed by the resource persons were education & consumer protection in the financial services sector, the role of OJK in regulating & supervising the capital market industry, and smart ways to invest in the Indonesian capital market.

In his remarks, the Vice Rector II of the Universitas Sumatera Utara Muhammad Arifin Nasution, S.Sos., M.SP greatly appreciated the public lecture initiated by the OJK in collaboration with USU. USU's Vice Rector II feels that the public still lacks information, therefore with this public lecture they can find out how to invest smartly and choose investment products.

“This public lecture is the right idea to disseminate information about OJK and the capital market. Because the public still lacks education regarding this or lacks information," The Vice Rector II USU said.

The Chief Executive of OJK Capital Market Supervision Inarno Djajadi as a resource person believes that choosing the Universitas Sumatera Utara  in this socialization and education program is because the academic community and USU students have great potential in encouraging information about the capital market. In line with this, Chairman of the OJK Board of Commissioners Mahendra Siregar added that USU students as qualified human resources can also understand this socialization from various perspectives.

The OJK's Director of Statistics and Capital Market Information and also resource person Muhammad Touriq said that this public lecture was very important due to the fact that the literacy level of Indonesian people, especially the capital market, was still relatively small. Therefore, the dissemination of information on socialization and integrated capital market education can be carried out by important intellectual agents, namely students.

“Earlier, we have seen the data that in fact the literacy level of the Indonesian people, especially for the capital market, is still relatively small compared to the banking industry. For example, earlier the figure was 4.9%, the second inclusion rate is even smaller, which is 3%," the Director of Statistics and Capital Market Information at OJK said.

Furthermore, the Development Director of the Indonesia Stock Exchange, Jeffrey Hendrik, believes that humans have the ability to influence society at large. Until later, more people will understand the capital market.

“The contribution of students is very important. Students already know that they can disseminate it to more people,” the Development Director of the Indonesia Stock Exchange said.

For information, if students want to enter the world of capital markets, they must understand, study, try, and continue to monitor every development related to the world of capital markets. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Education
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara