MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Prof. Fidel: Educational Officials (Tendik) Must Improve Skills In Transferring Conventional Work Systems To Digital
Prof. Fidel: Educational Officials (Tendik) Must Improve Skills in Transferring Conventional Work Systems to Digital
Published At
24 September 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Prof. Fidel: Educational Officials (Tendik) Must Improve Skills in Transferring Conventional Work Systems to Digital
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 24 September 2021

USU PUBLIC RELATIONS-MEDAN : Administration and university correspondence is one aspect that has also undergone significant changes at the Universitas Sumatera Utara, among others, by adapting technology in the applied system.

In addition to the One-Stop Application (ASA) in each faculty, USU has also run e-office applications and agendas.However, the operation of the new system has not run optimally due to the unpreparedness of all human resources involved inoperating the application.

Secretary of the Universitas Sumatera Utara Prof. Dr. dr Muhammad Fidel Ganis Siregar, Sp.OG (K), M Ked (OG), stated this when he was a coach in a routine apple that was held in the parking lot of the Central Administrative Bureau Building, Monday morning (09/13/2021).

The three types of services and the new administrative governance system, continued Prof. Fidel, are intended to simplify all administrative and mailing services, so that they can run more concisely, efficiently,effectively and paperless.

"This paperless policy is one form of support from the Universitas Sumatera Utara for reducing paper consumption without reducing work effectiveness and one of the efforts to prevent global warming and restore the function of forests as the lungs of the world," he said.

Even though the e-office application and agenda have started to run, added Prof. Fidel Ganis, it cannot be denied that their use has not been optimal and evenly distributed in all work units, so there are still some shortcomings here and there, in terms of updating or updating correspondence data. as well as the leadership work agenda.

"Transferring the work system from conventional methods to being technology-friendly certainly requires effort and hard work from all human resources who manage mail administration to continue to learn and improve their skills, so that both applications can run according to their goals and expectations," Prof. Fidel said.

Prof. Fidel realizes that the stuttering in using technology among employees is a problem that cannot be solved instantly, especially for old HR who are too familiar with conventional systems.However, all of this can of course be solved by collaboration between employees who are young and skilled in technology matters with old employees who are not trained and familiarwith these digital applications.

“The use of the current correspondence application is mandatory and must be used because it has benefits and has a major impact on the smooth performance of the leadership and the university as a whole.Office administration applications in the form of digital letters make all incoming and outgoing letters easier to handle and work on mobile, thereby reducing the potential for letter loss as well as the potential for damaged, tucked and unrecorded letters.In addition, the process is not bound by time and place because it is facilitated by technology in hand or through gadgets and other digital work devices," he said.

The Secretary of the University hopes that all education personnel, especially those in charge of secretarial or correspondence administration, will continue to improve their work ethic and skills, continue to be enthusiastic in adapting to the new work system, and support all responsibilities and performance of the Rector and all elements of the university leadership, in realizing The Universitas Sumatera Utara has become an international standard university.In order to achieve that international standard, one of the benchmarks for the assessment is none otherthan the good, clean,transparent, neat and accountablemanagement of correspondence and public administration services.

"Let's work together to make changes to the best for the Universitas Sumatera Utara, in line with the tagline "Transformation Towards the Ultimate" that has been echoed.Hopefully over time, our digital correspondence will run better and more effectively, thus providing comfort, certainty and security in carrying out daily performance," he pleaded.

At the end of his directive, Prof. Fidel reminded the entire USU family not to relax health protocols anywhere and anytime.Attend morning apples online and offline;Chair and Secretary of the USU Board of Trustees, Chair and Secretary of the Academic Senate, Chair and Secretary of the Board of Professors, Rectors and Vice Rectors, Expert Staff of the Rector, Chair of Research Institutes, Chair of the Institute for Community Service, Head of Libraries, Head of Information Systems Center, Head of UPT/work unit/bureau/head of division, Head of USU's KORPRI and educational staff of USU's Central Administration Bureau.(RJ/©ULC)

Author: Renny Julia Harahap - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - PR

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara