MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Ganjar’s Public Lecture At USU: We Must Be Adaptive
Ganjar’s Public Lecture at USU: We Must Be Adaptive
Published At
21 April 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Ganjar’s Public Lecture at USU: We Must Be Adaptive
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 21 April 2022

"We are already faced with the industrial revolution, the pandemic has pushed everyone to carry out this revolution. The world demands that we adapt,” said Ganjar.

USU PR - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held a Public Lecture entitled "MBKM and the Challenges of Digital Technology Disruption" by inviting the Governor of Central Java H. Ganjar Pranowo, S.H, M.IP. This public lecture was held at the USU Auditorium on Friday (4/8/2022).

Ganjar Pranowo said that currently the world is facing digital technology disruption that requires humans to adapt. Talents must be prepared with adaptive future education, one of which is through the Merdeka Learning Campus Merdeka (MBKM) program.

"We are already faced with the industrial revolution, the pandemic has pushed everyone to carry out this revolution. The world demands us to adapt," he said.

He explained that the industrial revolution caused 35% of jobs to be lost by 2025, while 65% of new competencies based on information technology grew. Therefore, students as digital natives are required to adapt information technology in new ways.

On the occasion Ganjar also appreciated USU students who had disrupted themselves by creating programs that promoted society. Likewise with the accompanying lecturers so as to create comfort in learning.

“They are very enthusiastic and ready to embrace the new civilization. Earlier they conveyed how they implemented MBKM, the practice in the community made applications, and carried out empowerment," he said.

Ganjar advised USU students to always adapt, innovate, and study seriously.

In line with this, USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., said that the world today is facing three problems, namely the industrial revolution 4.0, disruption, and a pandemic. For this reason, universities are tasked with preparing students to enter the industrial world, one of which is through the implementation of MBKM.

"Freedom of Learning provides opportunities for students to study outside campus or study programs, managing the challenges of digital disruption, so that graduating students can be absorbed by the industry and alumni are respected by the industrial world," the Rector said.

In supporting the implementation of MBKM, USU is also currently implementing collaborative and participatory classes by requiring lecturers and students to adapt the teaching and learning process according to industry needs.

“We make technical policies so that we continue to adjust the classroom education process according to industry needs. We want students to quickly adapt to learning, and lecturers to also adapt in teaching," he concluded. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara