MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Undergraduate Program In Management Holds Summer Course On Palm Oil Industry
USU Undergraduate Program in Management Holds Summer Course on Palm Oil Industry
Published At
04 September 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
USU Undergraduate Program in Management Holds Summer Course on Palm Oil Industry
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Wednesday, 04 September 2024

“The learning outcome of this summer course is that participants are able to conduct business feasibility studies in the palm oil industry, said Prof. Khaira.”

USU PR - The Undergraduate Program in Management, Faculty of Economics and Business, Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), successfully held the Opening of the 2024 Summer Course Program with the theme “Advanced Feasibility Study Theory & Practice in Palm Oil Industry”. This hybrid activity was held on Monday (19/08/24) at the Prof. Suhadji Hadibroto Hall, FEB USU.

 

This Summer Course is designed to provide an in-depth understanding of business feasibility studies in the palm oil industry. Participants will be invited to learn financial management theory applied to feasibility studies, investment strategies, and sustainable finance principles. In addition, participants will also be trained to master practical skills using Microsoft Excel in financial modeling.

 

The Dean of FEB USU, Dr. Fadli, SE, M.Si., appreciated the initiative of the Undergraduate Program in Management in organizing this program. He hopes that this activity can enhance the international reputation of FEB USU and provide benefits for students through increased relationships, academic activities, research, and additional knowledge for FEB lecturers.

 

“I appreciate the initiative of the Undergraduate Program in Management in organizing this program,” said Dr. Fadli.

 

As part of the summer course program, participants will conduct a field visit to PT Perkebunan Nusantara IV to directly observe the palm oil production process. This activity aims to provide real experience and up-to-date data that can be used in feasibility studies.

 

Head of the USU Undergraduate Program in Management, Prof. Dr. Khaira Amalia Fachrudin, explained that the learning outcomes of this summer course are that participants are able to conduct business feasibility studies in the palm oil industry and compile comprehensive business proposals. The final result of this program is a feasibility study report on palm oil mills prepared in groups. Participants will also have the opportunity to visit Bukit Lawang, a famous nature reserve with a population of orangutans.

 

“The learning outcome of this summer course is that participants are able to conduct a business feasibility study in the palm oil industry,” said Prof. Khaira.

 

This summer's courses are designed to teach the basic theories of financial management with a focus on applications in the feasibility study of the palm oil industry. The lectures will be delivered by competent professors and associate professors from within and outside the country, using a hybrid method that allows participants to follow offline at USU or through Zoom. A total of 246 students participated in this program, consisting of 220 students from the management program and international participants from Pakistan, Malaysia, Sudan, Gambia, Africa, India, Thailand, and the Philippines.

 

News
SDGs 4
SDGs
SDGs 12
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara