MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Medicine
Specialist-1 Program In Radiology
Spesialist-1 Program
Radiology
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Specialist Program in Radiology of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is one of the medical sciences that studies how to scan and diagnose the inside of the human body using X-rays, both in the form of electromagnetic waves and mechanical waves. This study program organizes radiology specialist doctor education based on the latest technology, and students are expected to have broad knowledge and skills in their fields.

This study program is committed to producing prospective doctors who are experts in the radiology field, with the help and supervision of nationally and internationally certified lecturers. Graduates of the Specialist Program in Radiology have the opportunity to pursue a career as radiographers and other health technologists. Students who have completed this study program will hold the Radiology Specialist (Sp.Rad.) degree.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

dean.med@usu.ac.id

Specialist-1 Program in Radiology

Accredited Good

No. 0363/LAM-PTKes/Akr/Spe/V/2023

Vision of Specialist-1 Program in Radiology

To become a Radiology Study Program that produces radiology specialists who are moral, qualified, community-oriented, globally competitive and superior in oncology imaging services in 2024.

Mission of Specialist-1 Program in Radiology

Competent Graduates

To produce radiology specialist graduates who have scientific, professional and ethical competence, and can benefit the development of education, research and community service in the field of radiology.

Technology Based Education

To organize radiology specialist education based on the latest technology in accordance with global competence, especially oncology imaging.

Research

To organize integrated research that can produce quality findings and innovations according to the development of science and technology in the field of radiology, especially oncology.

Community Service

To provide services and community service in the field of radiology that is integrated, and professional.

Cooperation

To increase cooperation with domestic and foreign institutions.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Contact Us
Specialist-1 Program in Radiology
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Dr. Mansyur No. 5, Padang Bulan, Kec. Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20155

(061) - 8211045

dean.med@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara