MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Wins Two Titles At The 2022 PRIA Event
USU Wins Two Titles at the 2022 PRIA Event
Published At
07 April 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Wins Two Titles at the 2022 PRIA Event
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 07 April 2022

The two awards received by USU were the Bronze Winner for the Video Profile and Social Media categories. USU is the only university outside Java that won the title.

SEMARANG-USU PR: The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) has again recorded achievements at the national level. Most recently, USU won two titles in the Public Relations Indonesia Awards (PRIA) 2022. The results were announced on the award night held at PO Hotel Semarang, Central Java on Friday (3/25/2022). This adds to the length of achievements made by USU.

The two awards received by USU were the Bronze Winner for the Video Profile and Social Media categories. USU is the only university outside Java that has won the title. Previously, USU registered his work with the PRIA's jury. The jury determines the winner through a series of assessments carried out professionally and independently. The category winners were then called upon to participate in the announcement of the winners.

USU won the award after competing with various agencies. As is known, PRIA 2022 was attended by 789 participants from various institutions, such as universities, local governments, institutions, ministries, BUMD and BUMN, as well as national and multinational private companies. All participants competed in various categories, namely Best Presenter, All Categories, Most Popular in Print Media 2021, and Platinum Category.

Representing USU, Head of Public Relations, Protocol, and Promotion Amalia Meutia, M.Psi, Psychologists, were present to receive the award. She said that this award is a momentum to continue working and improve performance, especially in the field of public relations at USU.

"We hope that with optimism in the coming year, USU's Public Relations will continue to improve its performance that is oriented towards USU's target, namely Transformation towards the Ultimate in order to be able to create a better USU branding while making brilliant achievements," said Amalia.

Recently, USU is trying to improve its existence. In line with this, public relations is considered to be at the forefront of carrying out the mission of growing USU's positive image in society. These efforts are now starting to show results by winning an award at the PRIA 2022 event.

"The achievement obtained by USU's PR this time is not only a form of appreciation but also a form of commitment as USU's front guard who is always ready for change, capable of responding to the challenges of digital era disruption by prioritizing creativity and innovation in providing information to the public. This achievement cannot be separated from the hard work of the USU Public Relations team, which is fully supported by the leaders and the entire USU academic community," added Amalia.

Present at the event Deputy Mayor of Semarang Ir. Hj. Hevearita G. Rahayu, M.Sos and Founder and CEO of PR Indonesia Asmono Wikan. Hevearita appreciated the PRIA event which was held in Semarang City. He hopes that this activity can increase the passion for public relations in Indonesia.

"The PRIA 2022 activity is a momentum to improve public relations performance, because this is an annual event that reflects the highest achievement in communication performance and is the most comprehensive competition in Indonesia," said Hevearita.

In his remarks, Asmoni Wikan said that the PRIA 2022 event was getting more interesting with the increasing number of participants participating in the activity. This increase shows the progress of improving the quality of public relations in various agencies in Indonesia.

“Previously there were around 600 participant entries that took part in the PRIA event. However, this year, we received 789 entries. This increase shows the progress of efforts in public relations in Indonesia. So that the performance of public relations is currently considered as an important part in an agency,” said Asmoni.

The implementation of PRIA 2022 comes with the theme "Collaboration for National Awakening". This activity was held on March 23-25, 2022. In addition to the award night, a workshop was also held for the participants to increase their insight and knowledge in the field of public relations. (RR – ©ULC)

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Humas - Humas

News
Achievement
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara