MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Faculty Of Vocational Studies Holds Open House To Introduce Study Programs And Facilities
USU Faculty of Vocational Studies Holds Open House to Introduce Study Programs and Facilities
Published At
23 February 2025
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Faculty of Vocational Studies Holds Open House to Introduce Study Programs and Facilities
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Sunday, 23 February 2025

“This series of vocational faculty open house is an activity to introduce the study programs in the vocational faculty,” said Gustanto.

 

Public Relations USU - The Faculty of Vocational Studies of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held an Open House event to introduce its study programs and facilities. The event took place for two days, Thursday through Friday (20-21/02/2025), in the Vocational Hall, invited high school and vocational school students from Medan and outside the city.

 

Vice Dean III of the Faculty of Vocational Studies, Drs. Gustanto, M. Hum. said that the Open House was designed to introduce study programs in the faculty of vocational studies, showcase student innovations, and provide participants with a direct experience of the atmosphere of lectures in vocational studies.

 

“This series of vocational faculty open house is an activity to introduce the study programs in the vocational faculty,” said Gustanto.

 

The series of activities included a presentation from the head of the study program, a tour of campus facilities such as mini banking and laboratories, and a bazaar featuring student works.

 

Gustanto said that with 70% practice and 30% theory, the faculty hopes to attract students who want to focus on professional skills.

 

“We want students who come to find their passion in these professional fields,” he said.

 

On another occasion, the Secretary of the Directorate of Education Development, Dr. Joiverdia Arifiyanto, S.H., M.H. explained that this event's purpose was to provide the public an understanding about the vocational faculty, which was only established two years ago. He explained that vocational faculties have differences with polytechnics, especially in the focus of learning. Polytechnic emphasizes technique and professionalism more, while vocational faculty emphasize practical application. The faculty offers D3 programs with 14 study programs and D4 programs with 7 study programs.

 

“Because the question arises is what is the difference between vocational faculties and polytechnics,” he said.

 

He also highlighted the flexibility of vocational faculties for students who want to take a short education and work immediately. Vocational education is perfect for those with limited time or money to study longer.

 

“Because usually the constraints that exist are in the cost and the problem of studying for a long time,” he added.

 

Through this activity, the USU Faculty of Vocational Studies hopes that more students will be interested in continuing their education at the faculty. The bazaar, which displays various student works, is also one of the main attractions, providing a real picture of the results of learning in vocations.

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara