MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Vocational Education
Applied Bachelor's Degree Program In Banking And Finance
Applied Undergraduate Program
Banking and Finance
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Applied Bachelor's Degree Program in Banking and Finance at the Faculty of Vocational Education, Universitas Sumatera Utara, prepares its graduates to solve and analyze problems that occur in the banking and finance industry and to have a career in this industry. The FV USU Applied Bachelor's Degree Program in Banking and Finance offers three concentrations: Banking, Finance, and Public Appraisal.

Graduates of the FV USU Applied Bachelor's Degree Program in Banking and Finance are also equipped with competency certifications in accordance with their chosen concentration. The FV USU Applied Bachelor's Degree Program in Banking and Finance produces a professional workforce with theoretical abilities and practical skills.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

Applied Bachelor's Degree Program in Banking and Finance

Accredited Good

No.259/DE/A.5/AR.11/II/2024

Vision of Applied Bachelor's Degree Program in Banking and Finance

To become a leading vocational education center that produces superior human resources in banking and finance and can compete in the global industrial world.

Mission of Applied Bachelor's Degree Program in Banking and Finance

Education

Organizing vocational higher education that becomes a forum for character development and professionalism of human resources with an educational orientation that emphasizes competencies that are in line with the needs of the banking and finance industry and the world of work that continues to grow (lifelong learning) and following the BINTANG values.

Excellent Graduates

Producing graduates who have high expertise in banking and finance, and can support the growth of the national industry to be able to compete in the global industrial order.

Tri Dharma

Implementing, developing, and improving education, research, and community service programs in the vocational field to improve academic quality by developing superior vocational science, which is beneficial to the industrial world based on talent excellence.

Collaboration

Establish cooperation with IDUKA—government, community, media, and academics to produce professional graduates and follow IDUKA's needs.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Contact Us
Applied Bachelor's Degree Program in Banking and Finance
Universitas Sumatera Utara

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara