MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Cultural Science
Undergraduate Program In Chinese Language
Undergraduate Program
Chinese Language
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Undergraduate Program in Chinese Language of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) was established in 2007. Over the years, this study program has successfully produced outstanding students and highly competent Chinese language experts spread across various regions in Indonesia. This study program's main focus is the in-depth study of Mandarin, including the study of Chinese language, literature, and culture. Students will be taught all aspects of the Chinese language, from word structure, correct pronunciation, grammar, etc. Supported by teaching staff who are experts and certified in Chinese language teaching nationwide as well as the use of an integrated curriculum, we are committed to providing our students with an interactive education and learning experience.

Our main goal is for students to become the best competent individuals in the Chinese literature field, ready to compete nationally and internationally. Graduates of our study program have a wide range of career opportunities, from becoming translators, journalists, and professionals in the human resources field to the field of public relations.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

mandarin@usu.ac.id

Undergraduate Program in Chinese Language

Accredited B

No. 1743/SK/BAN-PT/Ak-PPJ/S/III/2022

Vision of Undergraduate Program in Chinese Language

By 2025, the Chinese Language Study Program of FIB USU will become a leading and prominent institution for the study of Chinese language, literature, and culture in Indonesia and Southeast Asia.

Mission of Undergraduate Program in Chinese Language

Academic Atmosphere

To create and implement a conducive academic environment, both internally and externally, for the education and teaching of Chinese language, literature, and culture that is planned, integrated, and oriented on the development of the quality of graduates capable of competing at the national and international levels.

Research

To conduct quality research and development in the fields of Chinese language, literature, and culture, which will be published in accredited national journals and reputable international journals as well as widely disseminated to stakeholders.

Publications

To develop and conduct quality interdisciplinary research in the fields of Chinese language, literature, and culture that encourage advancements in education, science, technology, social, economic, artistic, and cultural aspects that strengthen the identity of plurality, as well as will be published in nationally and internationally standardized journals and widely disseminated to stakeholders.

Community Service

To establish cooperation and engage in community service with businesses as well as government and private institutions on a national or international scale in the fields of Chinese language, literature, and culture to contribute to the welfare of society.

Competent Graduates

To prepare graduates who are knowledgeable and competent in Chinese language, literature, and culture, including its diversity, and who possess character, ethics, innovation, honesty, leadership qualities, and a sense of social responsibility towards societal issues.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Grammar

Listening

HSK preparation

Mandarin script

Phonology

Reading

Introduction to Chinese Literature

Chinese History

Mandarin Syntax

Chinese Society Institution

Hokkien Language

Chinese Arts and Crafts

Business Mandarin

Semantics of Mandarin

Drama and Cinema

Chinese Poetry and Prose

Philosophy of Chinese

Mandarin to Indonesian translation

Indonesian to Mandarin translation

Computer in Chinese

Mandarin for Professionals

Chinese Correspondence

Mandarin Media Language

Mandarin Tourism Language

Contact Us
Undergraduate Program in Chinese Language
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Universitas No.19, Padang Bulan, Kec. Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20155

(061) - 8215956 / (061)- 8215956 (Fax)

mandarin@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara