MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Faculty Of Engineering USU's 13th Lustrum Is Celebrated With Fun Run Festivities
Faculty of Engineering USU's 13th Lustrum is Celebrated with Fun Run Festivities
Published At
05 November 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
Faculty of Engineering USU's 13th Lustrum is Celebrated with Fun Run Festivities
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Tuesday, 05 November 2024

“The Faculty of Engineering must continue to motivate the academic community to innovate and demonstrate a commitment to excellence,” said the USU Rector.

HUMAS USU - The Faculty of Engineering of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (FT USU) celebrated the XIII Lustrum which marks the 65th anniversary of the faculty, by holding a “Fun Run” event. The event took place in the Faculty of Engineering USU campus area on Saturday, November 2.

USU Rector, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., in his speech, congratulated the entire academic community of the Faculty of Engineering USU on the 65th anniversary of the faculty's establishment. He also mentioned that the theme “Build Innovation and Excellence” is very relevant to face the increasingly dynamic and complex development challenges.

“May this faculty continue to grow to produce engineers who are recognized both nationally and globally,” said Prof. Muryanto.

The USU Rector also emphasized the importance of collaboration between academia, industry, and government. This synergy, he said, can create innovative solutions to support sustainable development that not only meets infrastructure needs, but also pays attention to social welfare and environmental sustainability.

“The Faculty of Engineering must continue to motivate the academic community to innovate and demonstrate a commitment to excellence,” said the USU Rector.

The Dean of the USU Faculty of Engineering, Prof. Dr. Ir. Fahmi ST., M.Sc., IPM, described that the sunny weather contributed to the smooth running of the event and the number of participants continued to grow over time, creating an increasingly festive atmosphere. He said that the core of the event was the gathering, which was an opportunity for alumni and the academic community to meet, share stories, and strengthen bonds of togetherness.

“The Faculty of Engineering is expected to be a pioneer in bringing progress to the Universitas Sumatera Utara, especially in efforts to achieve achievements at the global level and improve international rankings,” he explained.

The head of the committee, Ir. Ikhsan Siregar, ST, M.Eng., said that the theme was taken from the essence of the university's tagline which focuses on ultimate achievement. The Faculty of Engineering is committed to continue building innovations that bring important achievements, including international accreditation. He added that these innovations are not only a source of pride, but also strengthen the Faculty of Engineering in the global arena.

“We are committed to building innovations that produce important achievements, one of which is international accreditation,” explained Ir. Ikhsan.

As part of the event, the Faculty of Engineering also showcased various student innovations through exhibition booths. Ikhsan Siregar, S.T., M.Eng., highlighted that the exhibition was a clear proof that the faculty does not only focus on education but also encourages students to produce practical and innovative solutions that are beneficial.

“We want to showcase students' works and inventions that illustrate their creative spirit and technical excellence,” added Ir. Ikhsan.

News
SDGs
SDGs 3
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara