MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
The Rector Of USU: Jokowi's Name For IKN 10 Minutes City Is A Form Of Indonesia's Equality Commitment
The Rector of USU: Jokowi's name for IKN 10 Minutes City is a Form of Indonesia's Equality Commitment
Published At
24 February 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
The Rector of USU: Jokowi's name for IKN 10 Minutes City is a Form of Indonesia's Equality Commitment
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 24 February 2022

"The nickname from the President, 10 Minutes City is clear evidence of the government's alignment with development equity. The presence of IKN will make Indonesia have an even green infrastructure," said Mury

MEDAN-USU PR: The Rector ofthe Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Dr Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si. supports President Joko Widodo's program related to the development of the National Capital City (IKN) of the Archipelago.

The Chancellor also said that Jokowi's designation regarding IKN Nusantara, namely 10 Minutes City, is a commitment to equitable development in Indonesia that is humanist, efficient, and environmentally friendly.

"The nickname from the President, 10 Minutes City, is clear evidence of the government's alignment with development equity. The presence of IKN will make Indonesia have an even green infrastructure," said Mury in his statement, Tuesday (22/02/2022).

He explained that human welfare throughout Indonesia would be realized more quickly through infrastructure development. "So it can't be separated between infrastructure development and the development of human resources (HR)," he said.

According to the former Dean of the USU Faculty of Social and Political Sciences, infrastructure development and human resource development are ways that can be carried out simultaneously if there is a strong commitment from the government to the synergy of the two developments.

The grand design of IKN Nusantara, programmed by the Jokowi Government itself, is to create an environmentally friendly city with good facilities and infrastructure so that residents only need 10 minutes to go around all corners of the new capital city.

“The city planner considers environmentally friendly road access. So it's not wrong if Jokowi nicknamed it 10 Minutes City," he said.

The presence of IKN Nusantara, according to Mury, will automatically bring a domino effect of development in the area around the Etam Continent, as it is known as East Kalimantan.

"Our development will no longer be centered on the island of Java but will also be evenly distributed from Sabang to Merauke," he said.

Mury also explained that the IKN transition model from Jakarta must also be seen from the side of the commitment to an equal distribution in the territory of Indonesia in stages. Moving the capital city will also have a positive impact on the city of Jakarta.

“Jakarta will find it easy to reorganize itself. Floods, congestion and other urban problems will be more easily resolved. Jakarta remains a dynamic but more efficient economic center," he said.

The relocation, he added, will have an impact on the volume of vehicles and population density so that there is more space for Jakarta to address urban problems such as flooding, congestion and work productivity.

The USU Chancellor hopes that the development of the Nusantara IKN and the transition process of moving the capital city must be observed as a serious effort by the government to realize a just Indonesia in development, for the welfare of its people.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - -

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: KEMENTERIAN PUPR - -

News
Management
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara