MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Opening Ceremony Medan DigiFest 2024
Opening Ceremony Medan DigiFest 2024
Published At
04 September 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
Opening Ceremony Medan DigiFest 2024
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Wednesday, 04 September 2024

“Our task, namely this university, especially for USU, is to be able to advocate to make dissemination, and then have an impact on the changes expected by the community, explained Prof. Mury.”

USU PR - In order to continue cooperation, Bank Indonesia (BI) collaborates with the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) to officially open Digi Fest Medan 2024 with a lively opening ceremony at the Pancasila Building, Universitas Sumatera Utara on Friday 16/08/2024 and will last for 3 days from August 16-18.

 

This activity was attended directly by the Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara, Prof.Dr. Muryanto Amin S.Sos Msi, in his remarks, expressed his gratitude to related parties for their cooperation in this useful activity, which will have a positive impact on the university environment, especially for students. Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin S.Sos Msi said that the task of higher education, especially in North Sumatra, is to advocate for dissemination, which can impact the transformation of changes desired by society.

 

“Our task, namely this university, especially for USU, is to be able to advocate, make dissemination, and then have an impact on the changes expected by the community,” explained Prof. Mury.

 

Head of Bank Indonesia Representative of North Sumatra Province L.G.P Wira Kusuma also attended and opened the Digi Fest Medan 2024 event. L.G.P Wira Kusuma said this event serves as an educational platform to increase public awareness about the importance of digital transformation in financial transactions, especially in the North Sumatra region.

 

“This is an annual event that is carried out to increase public literacy on digital transactions because it is important for the economy, but there are many risks that must be faced in conducting digital transactions. Therefore, this activity is needed to educate the public,” he explained.

 

PJ Governor of North Sumatra, A.Fatoni, also attended and opened this event and said that this is a joint task and hopes to keep up with developments in society. We can make socialization efforts as a mitigation of unwanted things and create great access to make people literate in digital transactions.

 

This event is expected to change the way people think about financial transactions, encouraging people to be more open to new technologies. Overall, this event aims to create a significant positive impact in improving financial literacy and facilitating technology adoption among the community.

News
SDGs 4
SDGs
SDGs 9
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara