MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Rector: USU Transformation Starts From The Study Program
Rector: USU Transformation Starts from the Study Program
Published At
25 January 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Rector: USU Transformation Starts from the Study Program
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 25 January 2022

“The study program is crucial to design the implementation of higher education Tridarma that can be carried out in-line. This Tridharma cannot be done individually, but must be continuous. So that the goals are more concrete,” explained the USU Rector.

USU PR - The Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Dr Muryanto Amin, S Sos, M.Si., said that the transformation effort within USU started from the study program.

This was conveyed during the Socialization of the Strategy for Structuring and Developing USU Achieving Global Achievements on Monday (1/24/2022) at the USU Auditorium.

Present at the meeting were USU's Vice Rectors, Deans and Deputy Deans, as well as Heads of Study Programs at USU. This activity is targeting the heads of study programs. The Rector directly explained the roles and responsibilities of the study program in the transformation effort at USU.

According to the Rector, the study program is at the forefront of implementing transformation on all fronts. Like the Tridarma transformation, the study program plays a role in designing its implementation in a sustainable manner, not done separately and individually.

“This study program is important to design the implementation of higher education Tridarma that can be carried out in-line. This Tridharma cannot be done individually, but must be continuous. So that the goals are more concrete,” explained the USU Rector.

He explained that current developments require universities to be able to transform. As in the implementation of the Tridarma of higher education which consists of teaching, research, and community service, it is expected to produce output products that are beneficial to the community.

Muryanto Amin said that the results of Tridarma must be a solution to social problems. “The transformation of higher education into a Techno-Socio Entrepreneurial University requires all of us. Tridarma is directed to be able to produce innovations and entrepreneurs that are beneficial to society. The output of Tridarma is required to be able to contribute to increasing competitive capabilities, product innovation, and new industries," he said.

This change was realized to prepare students who are ready and can be accepted by the industrial world after graduating from college. He gave an example of how large companies today tend to accept graduates who have the ability, not just looking at the origin or diploma of the graduate.

“Our challenge is how to create graduates who are able to compete in the job market after they graduate. Like the Google company, they no longer depend on an applicant's diploma, but on the relevance of expertise. We realize that in the coming year, many jobs will be replaced and lost, such as postman, data entry clerk, receptionist, and so on. We need to prepare our students immediately,” said Muryanto Amin.

Merdeka Learning-Independence Campus is one of the programs that can be used as a tool to answer these challenges.

USU Rector encourages study programs to be more flexible in the learning methods and curriculum that will be given to students. He hopes that learning will be focused on increasing students' abilities and expertise in analytical thinking and being empowered to produce innovations.

Muryanto Amin also said that the efforts to internationalize the USU campus also came from study programs. According to him, these efforts will not mean anything if the study program cannot achieve global accreditation. The more internationally accredited study programs, the easier it will be for USU to reach the campus internationalization program.

“Currently, only a few of our study programs are internationally accredited. We must pursue this. How can we expect to be in the top 500 of the world's top universities if our study program is not internationally accredited. It has been our focus during this leadership period,” he said.

The target of entering 500 world universities has been Muryanto Amin's main focus since his inauguration in 2021. A series of efforts have been made, including the internationalization of campuses by increasing collaboration with foreign universities. Internally, international accreditation is the key to this effort. (©ULC)

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara