MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Ethnomusicology Art Performance Multicultural Messages
USU Ethnomusicology Art Performance Multicultural Messages
Published At
28 November 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Ethnomusicology Art Performance Multicultural Messages
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 28 November 2023

In the world of education, sometimes people forget that education does not only produce thoughts in the form of papers such as undergraduate thesis, thesis, dissertations or reputable scientific journals. But education also produces art, culture and sports. The arts, culture and sports owned by Universitas Sumatera Utara for the Ethnomusicology Study Program are actually global," said the USU Rector.

USU PR - The Nusantara Music and Dance Performance organized by the Ethnomusicology Study Program, Faculty of Cultural Sciences (FIB), University of North Sumatra (USU) with the theme "Celebrating Diversity", was successfully held and amazed the audience. By presenting various art performances in North Sumatra. This art performance was held at the Auditorium Building, Friday (03/11/2023).

This music and dance performance was opened by hitting gondang 9. Not only performed by students but also from lecturers of the Ethnomusicology Study Program. This performance features Maestro Traditions, Lecturers and Students who are the result of the learning process in the Ethnomusicology Study Program of FIB USU. A performance that implies a message, that cultural diversity is something worth celebrating. The message is conveyed through the orchestration of sounds and dance movements of the archipelago's cultural heritage.

USU Rector Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si, highly appreciates the implementation of this performance because it is in line with the theme Growing Together Through Innovation, Transformation and Sustainability. This theme is USU's commitment to contribute to the pace towards the Golden Indonesia 2045. He also said that education is not only on a piece of paper but also in the form of art and talent.

"In the world of education, sometimes people forget that education does not only produce thoughts in the form of papers such as theses, theses, dissertations or reputable scientific journals. But education also produces art, culture and sports. The arts, culture and sports owned by Universitas Sumatera Utara for the Ethnomusicology Study Program are actually global," said the USU Rector.

Furthermore, the USU Rector added that he is currently structuring the Ethnomusicology Study Program and targets 2 things. First, to produce works of art that can be relied upon to explore the cultures that exist in Indonesia. Second, expecting these musical instruments to be able to enter the music industry.

"Many things have been done, innovations made by the Ethnomusicology Study Program. Producing artists and then they have reached European countries. Competing to showcase cultures in Indonesia in the form of singing, dancing and other forms of art performances," added the Rector.

Rithaony Hutajulu, Head of the Ethnomusicology Study Program, said that the performance can preserve and develop art, that the culture in Indonesia is very rich and unique. The Head of Ethnomusicology also hopes that Ethnomusicology will return to success both domestically and abroad.

"This is a kind of starting point for us to achieve success again, yes. We used to be successful everywhere institutionally. Well, we are rebuilding, hopefully after this we can promote the performing arts of North Sumatra. Not only in Indonesia, but outside," said Rithaony.

The Music and Dance Performance presents various performances from several ethnicities in North Sumatra, including Malay, Simalungun, Karo, Toba, Pakpak, Nias, Mandailing, not only from North Sumatra ethnicities but also from other ethnicities namely Minang, Java, Sulawesi, Sundanese songs. Then from Western Music and then Multi Ethnic Collaboration.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Muhammad Andriansyah - Humas

News
Campus Life
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara