MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Inauguration Of USU Faculty Of Dentistry Lecturer Room
Inauguration of USU Faculty of Dentistry Lecturer Room
Published At
11 October 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Inauguration of USU Faculty of Dentistry Lecturer Room
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 11 October 2023

The thing that must be considered when we want to start structuring infrastructure is that first there is a plan called Detailed Engineering Design, what kind of planning," said the USU Rector.

USU PR - Faculty of Dentistry (FKG), Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), held the inauguration of a new lecturer building on Tuesday, (03/10/2023).

The new lecturer building was inaugurated directly by the USU Rector, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si, by signing the building inauguration inscription. The inauguration of the new Faculty of Dentistry building is in line with ministerial regulations which state that there is a separation between hospitals and faculties.

The inauguration of this lecturer's office is a commitment of the leadership of Universitas Sumatera Utara, to continue to improve the quality academic environment at the university.

The Rector of USU said that the thing that must be considered when you want to start structuring infrastructure, is that there must be a plan such as Detail Engineering Design.

"Things that must be considered when we want to start structuring infrastructure, first there is a plan called Detailed Engineering Design, what kind of planning," said the USU Rector.

As stated by Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin during the USU rector election, infrastructure arrangement includes laboratory arrangement, arrangement of existing assets, and arrangement of spaces used by each faculty, even the arrangement of public spaces at USU.

"The arrangement of our laboratories also includes the arrangement of existing assets and spaces used in each faculty," said the USU Rector.

On the same occasion, the USU Rector also stated that the Dental and Oral Hospital (RSGM) would later become a stand-alone business entity. The process is still waiting for the results of recommendations from the Financial Audit Agency (BPK).

"We are waiting for the results of the recommendation from BPK. Well, then what is in RSGM, essential becomes a business entity," said the USU Rector.

In line with that, the Dean of the Faculty of Dentistry, Dr. drg. Essie Octiara, Sp.KGA, Subsp.PKOA (K) explained that until now 2 departments can be distinguished in line with the construction of this building. Among them are the oral surgery department which is now used as a major operating room and inpatient room, then the IMT room which has been built into a specialist room for PPDGS, and lecturer and teaching staff rooms.

The Dean of the Faculty also expressed his hope that in the future a second lecturer building can be rebuilt so that the hospital can be utilized for the development of specialist clinics.

"There will be development for specialist clinics which currently do not exist," said the Dean.

With the inauguration of the new lecturer building, which is bigger and more comfortable, the Dean hopes that the performance of lecturers and teaching staff can be better so that the performance targets for each year can be met.

"Hopefully their performance can change for the better so that the performance targets each year can be met," said the Dean.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Campus Life
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara