MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Dentistry
Undergraduate Program In Dentistry
Undergraduate Program
Undergraduate Program in Dentistry
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Undergraduate Program in Dentistry at the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is a study program focusing on human oral health care, including diagnosing, treating, and preventing dental and oral problems. During the program, students will learn various theories and practices on Basic Dentistry, Dental Conservation, Endodontics, Pediatric Dentistry, Oral Health, Oral Biology, Radiology, Periodontics, Biomedicine, Dental Caries, Dental Tissue Diseases, and other related topics.

This study program aims to become a leader in 2025 in the fields of natural resources, technology, and art with global competitiveness, professionalism, and entrepreneurial spirit. The USU Undergraduate Program in Dentistry graduates are expected to have broad global insights and the ability to compete in the international market. Students who complete this study program will be awarded an undergraduate degree in dentistry (S.K.G.).

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

fkg@usu.ac.id

Undergraduate Program in Dentistry

Accredited Unggul

0788/LAM-PTKes/Akr/Sar/X/2024

Vision of Undergraduate Program in Dentistry

In 2025, the Undergraduate Program in Dentistry will become one that excels in natural resources, technology, and art with the ability to compete globally, be professional, and possess an entrepreneurial spirit.

Mission of Undergraduate Program in Dentistry

Education

To conduct the education process using up-to-date technology and information systems.

Research

To conduct research oriented on the development of science and technology excelling in natural resources, technology, and art for the development of academic, science, and technology beneficial for the public with the ability to compete globally.

Community Service

To conduct professional, integrated, and comprehensive dental and oral services.

BINTANG Characteristics

To form academic personnel with BINTANG characteristics (taqwa to the one and only God in the framework of diversity, innovative with integrity, tough and wise), professional, and possessing entrepreneurship spirit.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Orthodontics

Prosthodontics

Periodontics

Pediatric Dentistry

Material and Technology Science

Conservative Dentistry

Oral Pathology

Public Health Dentistry

Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery

Contact Us
Undergraduate Program in Dentistry
Universitas Sumatera Utara

(061)-8216131 / (061)-8213421 (Fax)

fkg@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara