MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU FKep-Immigration Cooperation In Making Smart Eazy Passpo
USU FKep-Immigration Cooperation in Making Smart Eazy Passpo
Published At
17 November 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU FKep-Immigration Cooperation in Making Smart Eazy Passpo
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 17 November 2022

"The university's tri dharma activities have shifted from a national to an international scope, including for example lecturers attending international conferences and then outbound, student exchanges, and also comparative studies," the Dean of the USU Medical Faculty said.

USU PR - Faculty of Nursing, Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) in collaboration with the Immigration Office Class I Special TPI Medan by providing the latest innovation service, namely Smart Eazy Passport. The activity took place at the USU Faculty of Nursing on Saturday, (11/5/2022).

In order to realize excellent service that is oriented to the needs of the community, Smart Eazy Passport is present for the first time in the midst of educational institutions at the Universitas Sumatera Utara by serving as many as 150 passports as a solution to unraveling queues and piling up passport applicants at the Immigration office. This program is in line with USU's vision towards internationalization, because students and the academic community cannot be separated from the need for a passport.

To reduce the increase in applications for passport makers at the immigration office during certain seasons, Smart Eazy Passport is a service that can determine when and to whom the Eazy Passport service is provided.

The Dean of the USU Faculty of Nursing Dr. Dudut Tanjung, S.Kp., M.Kep., Sp.KMB explained that this program can help USU quickly target the international scope. Several programs that have been launched can be helped by the presence of the Smart Eazy Passport, namely student exchanges, outbound, comparative studies, and international conferences.

"The tri dharma activities of higher education have shifted from national to international scope, including for example lecturers participating in international conferences and then outbound, student exchanges, and also comparative studies," Dean of the USU Faculty of Nursing said.

The Dean of USU Faculty of Nursing said, USU, which is targeting the ranking of 500 World Class Universities (WCU), can be helped by the presence of the Smart Eazy Passport. For this reason, this program can immediately be voiced to the faculties at USU.

"The university leadership has also conveyed to the entire academic community to aim for one of the study programs to have international accreditation. So, this passport is definitely needed by the academic community, especially universities too. In 2025 it is targeting the 500th international WCU ranking," he explained.

The Head of the TPI Medan Special Class I Immigration Office, Johanes Fanny Satria C.A hopes that with a target of 1,500 participants from various institutions, they can make the best use of the Smart Eazy Passport because the aim of this collaboration program is to fulfill community satisfaction.

“Nowadays, its presence can really be felt and is directly beneficial in the community. So indeed this is one of our efforts to reach out directly to the community. It is true that there is a service mechanism for us on weekdays, what we are targeting is the university level or students, schools and so on to facilitate when they cannot take advantage of services on weekdays, difficulties, permission to leave and so on. We came here," said the Head of the Special Immigration Office Class I for TPI Medan.

"This is also one of our ways to break down the queue so there is no accumulation of passport applicants at the immigration office," he added.

As additional information, the Smart Eazy Passport service has also been carried out at the USU Faculty of Psychology and Secretariat with the number of applicants being served on November 5, 2022 as many as 112 applicants. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Collaboration
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara