MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Engineering Talk #8 Explores Potential Of Palm Oil Industry
Engineering Talk #8 Explores Potential of Palm Oil Industry
Published At
28 November 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Engineering Talk #8 Explores Potential of Palm Oil Industry
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 28 November 2023

The future potential of palm oil is vast and has not been fully explored. It's not just for the Faculty of Engineering; later, we will involve the entire university. Palm oil can be a solution for tackling stunting. We can apply technological developments, making palm oil a flagship in North Sumatra. We can truly explore its potential and future benefits, " expressed Prof. Fahmi

USU PR- The Faculty of Engineering (FT) at Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) conducted the 8th Engineering Talk Series on the topic "Future Trends in The Palm Oil Industry." The event occurred at the FT USU Auditorium on Thursday (11/16/2023).

The Engineering Talk is a regular event organized by FT USU, featuring speakers from various fields. This edition focused on the palm oil industry and brought in the Indonesian Palm Oil Council Chairman, Ir. Sahat M Sinaga.

In his opening speech, the Dean of FT USU, Prof. Dr. Ir. Fahmi S.T., M.Sc., IPM, stated that FT USU has study programs that can collaborate to manage the potential of palm oil, especially in North Sumatra. He emphasized the significant potential of the palm oil industry and hoped that this activity could involve active participation from all parties.

"FT has chemical, environmental, mechanical, electrical, architecture, and civil engineering. They can collaborate in processing palm oil. The hope is that this doesn't stop today. Let's maximize the opportunities and potential, not just be spectators but actively participate," said Prof. Fahmi.

Furthermore, Prof. Dr. Ir. Fahmi, S.T, M. Sc., IPM., revealed that this collaboration involves the Faculty of Engineering and the entire university. He also highlighted the potential of the palm oil industry as a solution for various aspects.

"The future potential of palm oil is vast and has not been fully explored. It's not just for the Faculty of Engineering; later, we will involve the entire university. Palm oil can be a solution for tackling stunting. We can apply technological developments, making palm oil a flagship in North Sumatra. We can truly explore its potential and future benefits, " expressed Prof. Fahmi.

Prof. Dr. Ir. Renita Manurung, M.T., the Vice Dean I of FT USU, explained that this activity aims to motivate students to think creatively and create positive changes for a better future.

"Every event invites prominent speakers. I believe students gain new insights, not just insights, but I see them motivated. So, we want students to be motivated not only with literature but to think about something, create something, to advance in the future," said Prof. Renita.

As the speaker, Ir. Sahat M. Sinaga emphasized the importance of environmental awareness and understanding that the future of this large palm oil industry depends on efforts to preserve and care for it. He hoped that this activity could support further development in the palm oil industry.

"In today's session, we are creating awareness for students that we must do something. The world is moving towards green sustainability. I hope with this meeting there is a desire to develop further, and I have a desire to support the development of palm oil that benefits the world, not just Indonesia," explained Ir. Sahat.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Education
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara