MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Economics And Business
Faculty of Economics and Business
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

feb@usu.ac.id

The Faculty of Economics and Business (FEB) of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) has four undergraduate programs, three master's programs, and three doctoral programs, all of which have obtained good accreditation. FEB USU focuses on studying economics, accounting, and management, offering education to students interested in being part of a crucial and globally impactful sector involving economic development, business, management, and finance. Led by the best educators in economics and business and supported by adequate facilities, we are committed to guiding our students to become competent economists and business experts who can make significant contributions to economic prosperity at the national and international levels.

Visit Faculty Page

Accounting

Undergraduate Program

Management

Undergraduate Program

Economics Development

Undergraduate Program

Entrepreneurship

Undergraduate Program

Economic Science

Master Program

Management Science

Master Program

Accounting

Master Program

Economic Science

Doctoral Program

Management Science

Doctoral Program

Accounting Science

Doctoral Program

Vision of Faculty of Economics and Business

To become a leading Faculty of Economics and Business that is recognized for its excellence and capability to fulfill market demands in a globally competitive environment.

Mission of Faculty of Economics and Business

BINTANG

Establishing  USU Faculty of Economics and Business as a location to work, accomplish, and compete in global competition.

Education

To become a platform for developing the character and professionalism of human resources through a high-quality, comprehensive educational process focused on empowering the democratic spirit.

Research

Increasing the quantity and caliber of graduates who are prepared to become agents of change who bring rejuvenation to the lives of the larger community through scientific expertise, strong competition, and intellectual ethics.

Service

Establishing an environment of research and community service that is both quantifiable and dynamic for the whole academic community with an aim to bring up positive outcomes in the lives of citizens of the greater society.

Contact Us
Faculty of Economics and Business
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jalan Prof.T.M. Hanafiah, SH Kampus USU Medan 20155

061-8218532

feb@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara