MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Education Bazaar And SNPMB 2025 Socialization: Get To Know USU Closer, Choose A Major With Confidence
Education Bazaar and SNPMB 2025 Socialization: Get to know USU Closer, Choose a Major with Confidence
Published At
17 February 2025
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Education Bazaar and SNPMB 2025 Socialization: Get to know USU Closer, Choose a Major with Confidence
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 17 February 2025

“This socialization can greatly benefit schools and students to understand more about the USU 2025 SNPMB selection process. With good preparation, the chances of being accepted at USU will be even greater. Don't be afraid to choose a major that suits your passion. With the right information and careful preparation, everyone has the opportunity to achieve their dreams,” said Prof. Edy.

 

Public Relations USU - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held an Education Bazaar in a series of Socialization of the National Selection of New Student Admissions (SNPMB) 2025. The event was attended by principals, teachers, and high school / vocational / MA students throughout North Sumatra. Located at the USU Auditorium on Saturday (15/02/2025).

 

Not only is it an event to socialize the USU entrance pathway, but this activity is also an opportunity for prospective students to learn more about the study programs and various scholarships offered.

 

USU opens 49 undergraduate study programs with a total capacity of 7,460 seats through three main channels: National Selection Based on Achievement (SNBP), for 2,139 seats; National Selection Based on Test (SNBT), for 2,448 seats; and Independent Student Selection (SMM), for 3,053 seats. USU also provides the Superior Achievement-Based Selection (SBPU) route for outstanding students in academic and non-academic fields.

 

In his speech, USU Vice Rector I, Prof. Dr. Edy Ikhsan, S.H., M.A., emphasized that this activity aims to provide clear information so students do not choose the wrong major. Through this socialization, he hopes prospective students can prepare themselves more thoroughly and choose a study program that suits their interests and talents.

 

“This socialization can greatly benefit schools and students to understand more about the USU 2025 SNPMB selection process. With good preparation, the chances of being accepted at USU will be even greater. Don't be afraid to choose a major that suits your passion. With the right information and careful preparation, everyone has the opportunity to achieve their dreams,” said Prof. Edy.

 

The head of the USU Priority Program Evaluation Agency, Ir. Ikhsan Siregar, S.T., M.Eng., Ph.D, in a presentation moderated by the Head of Public Relations Promotion and Protocol, Amalia Meutia, M.Psi., a Psychologist, explained that USU is committed to increasing public understanding of the choice of majors to minimize the possibility of wrong majors. By providing transparent and accurate information, the university ensures every prospective student has a clear picture before making their academic choices.

 

“In 2025, USU will not blacklist any school. We want to make sure people understand major selection better,” Ikhsan said.

 

USU also offers various scholarship programs for students with financial constraints. Rahma Yurliani, S.Psi, M.Psi, director of USU's Directorate of Student Achievement and Alumni Relations, mentioned that the number of scholarships provided by USU has increased every year. She explained that in addition to scholarships from the government, many private partners provide educational assistance to USU students.

 

“If you look at the trend, the number of scholarship recipients at USU continues to increase,” said Rahma Yurliani.

 

This activity received appreciation from various parties, including the Head of SMA Negeri 1 Salak, Pakpak Bharat Regency, Nurlaila Solin, S.Pd., M.Pd. She admitted that she was very happy with this education bazaar because it gave students a broader insight into the pathway to PTN and the prospects for lectures at USU.

 

“We feel very enlightened with the information presented in this socialization. It really helps them plan their academic future,” said Nurlaila Solin.

 

In addition to presenting material, this event was also enlivened by giving gifts to the participants. With this activity, USU hopes that more students will get a clear picture of college and be able to choose a major confidently.

News
SDGs 4
SDGs
SDGs 8
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara