MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU-PT NSHE Batangtoru Hydroelectric Power Plant Develop
USU-PT NSHE Batangtoru Hydroelectric Power Plant Develop
Published At
08 August 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU-PT NSHE Batangtoru Hydroelectric Power Plant Develop
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 08 August 2023

With PT NSHE, we remain guided by the tri-dharma of education, research, and community service. Our goal is not only to assist NHSE but also to become partners so that lecturers can do internships there, "said Prof. Muryanto Amin

USU PR - Universitas Sumatera Utara  (USU) on Tuesday (25/07/2023) signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with PT North Sumatra Hydro Energy (NSHE) Batangtoru Hydropower Plant in South Tapanuli. The signing of the memorandum of understanding was held at the USU Rector's Audience Room by the Rector of the University of North Sumatra, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin S.Sos., M.Si and the Director of PT NSHE PLTA Batangtoru, Fauzi Leilan.

The Rector of Universitas Sumatera Utara expressed his gratitude and welcome to the Regent of South Tapanuli and his staff and the Directors of PT North Sumatra Hydro Energy (NSHE) Batangtoru Hydroelectric Power Plant and their staff because the collaboration that will be established with this partner cannot be separated from the tri dharma guidelines of education, research and community service. 

"We remain guided by the tri dharma of education, research, and community service with PT NSHE, and we hope not only to help NHSE but also to be a partner so that lecturers can do internships there so the technology," he said.

Furthermore, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin S.Sos., M.Si said that he would oversee and discuss the principles of a green economy and the impact that would be caused by this investment project to minimize the negative impact on USU, local communities, and the environment. 

"It needs to be studied, and then we will discuss the impacts that may result from this investment project. So minimizing the impact for USU is studying the technology used because this is a large hydropower plant, and the principle of the green economy is very important, especially for environmental health sustainability and so on is important. We discuss together, and we guard so that investment in the economy does not harm local communities, especially preserving the environment, "he said.

Meanwhile, Fauzi Leilan, as Director of PT NSHE PLTA Batangtoru, said that he would welcome the potential for cooperation both in terms of developing the competence of lecturers and developing the competence of students to be more applicable in PT NSHE PLTA projects.

Fauzi Leilan mentioned that the next meeting would discuss cooperation agreements on specific programs, such as social activities with environmental and technological headings, and will formulate the right form of cooperation to provide optimal mutual benefits.

"It also includes community service. After this MoU, we will hold further meetings to discuss the technicalities of cooperation agreements on specific program activities, such as social activities, activities with environmental themes, and technological activities. We can formulate the right cooperation to get optimal benefits for us together," he said.

The Regent of South Tapanuli, H. Dolly Putra Parlindungan Pasaribu, S.Pt, MM, welcomed such concerns in the field of investment from various parties, including international ones in sustainable forest areas. The Regent of South Tapanuli put his trust in the ongoing cooperation between the competent educational institution USU and the environmentally friendly company PT North Sumatra Hydro Energy (NSHE) Batangtoru Hydroelectric Power Plant because it is in line with South Tapanuli's vision of "Sustainable Utilisation of Natural Productivity" that provides benefits to the community.

"Yes, we have said that the Batang Toru ecosystem is a forest area that is still maintained with the entry of investment. There is attention from any international party to the sustainability of this ecosystem. In this case, of course, we feel very interested in cooperation. This is between USU and NSHE because we know that USU is a competent educational institution, then NSHE has repeatedly said that this company is environmentally friendly. This finding is to be a reference for us together, including the South Sumatra regional government, in maintaining this ecosystem by our vision of sustainable utilization of natural productivity," he said.

"The sustainability of this natural opening also affects the community, so we must protect these two interests," he added.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Collaboration
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara