MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Student Cultural Festival Appreciated By USU Board
USU Student Cultural Festival Appreciated by USU Board
Published At
16 June 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Student Cultural Festival Appreciated by USU Board
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 16 June 2022

Vice-Rector I of USU, Dr. Edy Ikhsan, SH, MA said that all USU leaders appreciated and welcomed this activity because it was a student achievement after almost two years of not having an event held on a large scale.

PR USU - The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Student Executive Board held a Cultural Festival with the theme 'North Sumatran Cultural Creativity in Millennial Performances'. The event was held at USU's Parking Field on Friday, (10/06/2022).

Vice-Rector I of USU, Dr. Edy Ikhsan, SH, MA said that all USU leaders appreciated and welcomed this activity because it was a student achievement after almost two years of not having an event held on a large scale.

"This is an achievement by USU students under the coordination of the Student Executive Board, especially from the Ministry of Cultural Arts, which in my opinion, is an event that has been eagerly awaited for almost 2 years. We don't have an event organized massively by students," said VR 1 USU.

Edy Ikhsan said that later this festival would become a significant annual event because it is full of the essence of education in the meaning of culture as a creative work and initiative with good values. Therefore, students are expected to be able to make it a way of life.

“Taking the wisdom of the past and how to make it a way of life, especially for today's students. I think in the future we will make this an annual event and it is planned to be even bigger and how about inviting participants from other universities to take part in this festival,” he said.

On the same occasion, the Chair of the Committee for the USU Cultural Festival, Muhammad Reza Herdiansyah, said that the theme raised at this event was a response to the millennial situation, which mostly ignores culture as a result of following the times.

"For this theme, we all know that at this time, millennials have not heeded what is called culture because they have followed the millennial era without thinking about culture. Every day, the culture is in each of them,” he explained.

Reza said that USU was one of the campuses that succeeded in holding a festival that carried culture so that related parties could consider this activity to provide support and make it an annual routine event.

"Hopefully, this activity can become an annual activity like what the Vice-Rector said, and in the future maybe this activity might become a bigger activity because basically, we know we haven't done an activity in the context of the biggest festival at this time. And Alhamdulillah, usu is one of the campuses in Indonesia that can carry out activities like this. And hopefully, this can be considered by related parties who can support the activity," he said.

For information, this event was held for two consecutive days, June 10 to 11, 2022, inviting the famous Indie Band Fourtwenty as the main artist and also enlivened by various singers and other local artists.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Campus Life
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara