MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Vocational Education
Diploma Program In Food And Pharmaceutical Analyst
Diploma Program
Food and Pharmaceutical Analyst
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Diploma Program of Food and Pharmaceutical Analysts (Anafarma) at the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) was established in 1995 and has achieved Very Good (A) accreditation. The program is responsible for implementing vocational higher education in the field of pharmacy with high national standards.

Supported by the best, qualified teaching staff and having national teaching certification, this study program produces graduates ready to become pharmaceutical and food analysts, technical personnel in the pharmaceutical field, medical representatives, and entrepreneurs. Alumni of the Diploma Program of Food and Pharmaceutical Analysts have spread across various regions in Indonesia, working in the pharmaceutical and food industry, drug and food quality testing laboratories, pharmaceutical wholesalers, hospitals, and pharmaceutical installations in different government and private agencies.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

anafarma@usu.ac.id

Diploma Program in Food and Pharmaceutical Analyst

Accredited Excellent

0470/LAM-PTKes/Akr/Dip/VII/2024

Vision of Diploma Program in Food and Pharmaceutical Analyst

Becoming an international standard vocational education study program in the field of Expertise in Food and Pharmaceutical Analysis based on the BINTANG value system (Bertakwa, INovatif, TANGguh dan Arif)

Mission of Diploma Program in Food and Pharmaceutical Analyst

Education

Organizing international standard pharmacy vocational higher education professionally, morally, and ethically based on the BINTANG values ( Bertakwa, INovatif, TANGguh, dan Arif).

Research

Carry out research and community service (PENAEMAS) based on pharmaceutical and food analysis expertise (KARISMA), which is internationally recognized.

Collaboration

Establishing cooperation with domestic and foreign institutions in the field of pharmaceutical and food science based on the principles of justice, equality, and sustainability (DIRAJUT).

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Chemistry

Microbiology

Natural Materials Technology

Pharmaceutics

Contact Us
Diploma Program in Food and Pharmaceutical Analyst
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Bioteknologi No. 2, Kampus USU

anafarma@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara