MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Vocational Education
Diploma Program In Physics
Diploma Program
Physics
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Diploma Program in Physics is a study program that provides vocational education in the scientific field of microcontroller/microprocessor-based physics.

The Diploma Program in Physics is staffed with exceptional individuals dedicated and certified to teach nationally. It is supported by the best facilities and infrastructure, including six laboratories that can help the effectiveness of education. Our study program is highly committed to producing intermediate experts with professional skills in microprocessor-based instrumentation use and maintenance, as well as basics with graduate profiles as instrumentation technicians, instrumentation analysts, instrumentation supervisor assistants, and instrumentation designers.

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

dipl-fisika@usu.ac.id

Diploma Program in Physics

Accredited Very Good

009/SK/LAMSAMA/Akred/DIII/XII/2022

Vision of Diploma Program in Physics

Becoming a Diploma Program in Physics that excels nationally and produces professionals in the microcontroller/microprocessor-based instrumentation and automation industry.

Mission of Diploma Program in Physics

Quality Learning

Implement quality-based learning, professionalism, and flexibility.

Practicum

Increase the contribution of instrumentation knowledge through practicum and group studies.

Service

Provide services in instrumentation to other disciplines and the community.

Instrumentation

Implement quality-based education management by utilizing instrumentation.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Microcontroller-based Instrumentation

Contact Us
Diploma Program in Physics
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jalan Bioteknologi No.2 Kampus USU Medan 20155

(+62)-618213250

dipl-fisika@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara