MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Agreement Between USU And Gojek Encourages Digitalization
Agreement Between USU and Gojek Encourages Digitalization
Published At
22 February 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Agreement Between USU and Gojek Encourages Digitalization
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 22 February 2023

"This type of openness, known as open attendance, must be able to comprehend that production is no longer the sole way to earn a job or have abilities that must be comparable to work. That is why we must take a second step and invite many practitioners. When they get into the industrial sector, sometimes the nuances are completely different, so this year, we are attempting to create a collaborative research program, "said the USU Rector

Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) has formed a collaboration with PT Gojek Indonesia. The Agreement was signed immediately by USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si, and the shelter was inaugurated on Friday (10/2/2023) in the Rectorate Lobby.

Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos, M.Si, Rector of USU, explained in his remarks that USU would attempt to design a collaborative program or research systematized with the industrial world since students need to comprehend the differences between formal education and the industrial atmosphere.

"This type of openness, known as open attendance, must be able to comprehend that production is no longer the sole way to earn a job or have abilities that must be comparable to work. That is why we must take a second step and invite many practitioners. When they get into the industrial sector, sometimes the nuances are completely different, so this year, we are attempting to create a collaborative research program, "said the Rector o USU

Cut Putri Pohan, Vice President of PT Gojek Indonesia Sumatra Region, emphasized that structuring cooperation aims to create collaboration between the industrial and educational worlds. Cooperation in information exchange, experience sharing, and internships will benefit students and encourage them to be more responsive to digitalization.

"This collaboration arrangement aims to create synergy between the industrial and educational worlds. Because we know that formal education will enter the industrial sector after this education, we want the transition to be easy. We also want to exchange information and experience, and we want USU students to be more digitally literate, "PT Gojek, Vice President of Sumatra Region, stated.

District Head of Gojek Medan, Sahlih Adrian Fauzi, expects that through this relationship, USU students would better understand their potential, digital literacy, and awareness of the industrial world's existence.

"We give it to the transition so that when they complete school, they are hopefully prepared and know what they want to do, where they want to go, and what path they want to pursue. Second, we want to be in any sector, we want any faculty, we are an investment product, so we want to supply that expertise to make it simpler for friends in the world of work, "The District Head of Gojek Medan stated added.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Collaboration
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara