MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Indonesian Embassy For Qatar Holds Audience At USU, Yields In Cooperation
Indonesian Embassy for Qatar Holds Audience at USU, Yields in Cooperation
Published At
19 February 2024
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Indonesian Embassy for Qatar Holds Audience at USU, Yields in Cooperation
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 19 February 2024

We have various internationalization goals, including sending students for activities abroad such as student exchange programs and having lecturers engage in activities overseas. We sincerely hope that with the assistance of the embassy, we can collaborate with universities in Doha," stated Prof. Poppy.

USU PR – Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) welcomed an audience from the Embassy of the Republic of Indonesia for Doha and the Directorate of the Middle East at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Indonesia. The event took place in the Rector's Audience Room, Rectorat Building, USU, on Wednesday (Jan. 17, 2024).

The visit aimed to mark the inaugural flight of Qatar Airways to Medan, enhancing bilateral relations between Indonesia and Doha. This strategic step is taken to foster increased interaction, cultural exchange, and positive impacts on the tourism industry and economy. The audience particularly signifies collaboration between the university and the Embassy of the Republic of Indonesia for Doha in the fields of education and research.

Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan, S.Si., M.Si., Apt., Vice Rector III of USU, expressed her appreciation for the visit from the Indonesian Embassy in Doha, considering USU as a potential partner for collaboration with universities and industries in Doha. She emphasized USU's internationalization targets, which, through this visit, could be realized by collaborating with universities and industries in Doha.

"We have various internationalization goals, including sending students for activities abroad such as student exchange programs and having lecturers engage in activities overseas. We sincerely hope that with the assistance of the embassy, we can collaborate with universities in Doha," stated Prof. Poppy.

Ambassador of the Republic of Indonesia to Doha, H.E. Ridwan Hassan, explained that the audience discussed collaborations between governments (G2G), businesses (B2B), and individuals (P2P). He also presented various opportunities for USU students and alumni, as well as the people of North Sumatra, in terms of education and job prospects in Qatar.

"I offered several opportunities today. Perhaps studying in Qatar for USU alumni or students, and equally important is exploring job opportunities for graduates of USU or anyone from North Sumatra to work in Qatar, which is always open," clarified H.E. Ridwan Hassan.

H.E. Ridwan Hassan expressed hopes for strengthening cooperation between Indonesia and Qatar, especially from North Sumatra. With the direct flight from Doha to Medan facilitating interactions between the two countries, it is expected to open possibilities and broaden the potential for collaboration in advancing educational and diplomatic relationships.

"Especially now with the direct flights. From this, we can get to know each other, and see opportunities that can be developed in the ongoing collaboration between USU and perhaps several campuses in Qatar, along with the Indonesian Embassy," expressed H.E. Ridwan Hassan

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
SDGs
SDGs 16
SDGs 17
Collaboration
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara