MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Rector Accepts Invitation From Chinese University
USU Rector Accepts Invitation from Chinese University
Published At
13 November 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Rector Accepts Invitation from Chinese University
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 13 November 2023

USU Rector, Prof. Muryanto Amin, explained that this series of visits is a follow-up to the previously established collaboration with HK Haibin Education Group Limited China. During this reciprocal visit, the Rector visited Yantai Nanshan University (YNU), founded by Nanshan Holding and Shandong Nanshan Aluminium Co., Ltd., the largest aluminum industry in China. Additionally, he visited Yantai Nanshan University (YNU), a state university formed through collaboration between Peking University and Tsinghua University in 1984."

USU PR- As part of the ongoing campus internationalization initiative, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., the Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), attended an invitation from Chinese universities for academic collaboration on Monday and Tuesday (6-7/11/2023). This collaborative visit aims to introduce USU internationally, particularly in a country with a population of approximately 1,411,750,000 (2023).

 

Prof. Muryanto Amin, the Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), highlighted that this series of visits continues the previously established collaboration with HK Haibin Education Group Limited China. During this reciprocal visit, the Rector visited Yantai Nanshan University (YNU), founded by Nanshan Holding and Shandong Nanshan Aluminium Co., Ltd., the largest aluminum industry in China. Additionally, he visited Yantai University (YU), a state university formed through collaboration between Peking University and Tsinghua University in 1984.

 

The USU delegation also engaged in a working meeting with HK Haibin Education Group Limited China, known for its extensive network of collaborations with universities in China and its consistent partnerships with renowned universities in Indonesia.

 

During his visit to Yantai Nanshan University in the Shandong Province of China, USU Rector Prof. Muryanto Amin was welcomed by the university's leadership, including Prof. Dr. Yang Wanli (President of YNU), Prof. Xu Yugou (Vice President), Prof. Tang Libo (Associate Vice President & Provost), and other officials. Established in 1988 by Nanshan Holdings, one of China's Top 500 Companies, YNU boasts 55 undergraduate programs, 69 departments, and 12 schools with 30,000 undergraduate students and 1,500 faculty members. With a sprawling campus of 228 hectares and state-of-the-art laboratories valued at RMB135 million (IDR 289.92 billion), YNU is positioned as a strategic partner for USU to collaborate and enhance academic capacity through activities such as Joint Master's Degree programs and joint research initiatives.

 

"A verbal agreement has been reached for USU and YNU to establish a global partnership, including creating a Joint Master's Degree program. USU faculty will be invited to teach and conduct research at YNU using their facilities. Both universities will also engage in researcher matching and collaborative research, aiming to establish a Center of Excellence in Science and Technology at both institutions, focusing on advanced technologies such as aluminum processing technology. Additionally, YNU students are invited to participate in the International Summer Course at USU," said the Rector.

 

Accompanied by USU's Vice-Rector for Asset Management and Business, Dr. Ir. Luhut Sihombing, M.P., Director of Internationalization and Global Partnerships, Prof. Dr. Eng. Himsar Ambarita, S.T., M.T., and Director of Digitalization and System Integration, Dr. Emerson Pascaswira Sinulingga, S.T., M.Sc., the USU delegation then visited and accessed the largest aluminum processing technology facility in China owned by Shandong Nanshan Aluminium Co., Ltd. (Nanshan Group). The company is set to build a bauxite processing smelter in the Bintan region with an investment value of US$5 billion (approximately IDR 54.9 trillion).

 

"With this visit, we hope to achieve collaboration to strengthen USU's research capacity, foster an academic atmosphere rich in applied technology to industry, and ultimately produce graduates ready to work in industries requiring skilled professionals, especially those resulting from foreign capital investments," added Prof. Muryanto Amin.

 

Following his visit to Yantai Nanshan University, the USU Rector proceeded with a meeting at Yantai University located in Yanta, Shandong Province, China. The highest leadership welcomed the USU team, Prof. Song Zhongmin, Mr. Wu Hongjun, and the entire leadership team of YU. Yantai University aims to establish collaborations with universities in ASEAN and has previously collaborated with Malaysia, Thailand, and the Philippines but has yet to form partnerships with Indonesian universities. Therefore, YU expressed interest in collaborating with USU as their first partner in Indonesia.

 

After intensive discussions, Prof. Muryanto outlined several proposed collaborations, including international staff mobility programs, creating joint degree programs at the postgraduate level, exploring YU faculty pursuing doctoral education at USU, and implementing an international summer course at USU.

 

The Rector is optimistic that with the support of HK Haibin Education Group Limited China, this collaborative visit will result in mutually beneficial partnerships for USU and Chinese universities. Haibin Education Group has already established an independent teaching center in Bali to provide comfortable overseas learning services for students, particularly those from China.

The established collaboration with USU is expected to facilitate technology and education transfer between China and Indonesia, particularly driving the internationalization process of USU to gain the academic advantage needed to contribute to Indonesia's demographic bonus, advancing towards Indonesia Emas 2045.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: Prof. Muryanto Amin - Rektor USU

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Collaboration
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara