MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Cultural Science
Undergraduate Program In Malay Literature
Undergraduate Program
Melayu Literature
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Undergraduate Program in Malay Literature of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is one of the rare literature departments in the Faculty of Cultural Science. This program has succeeded in producing outstanding students and turning them into recognized experts in Malay literature throughout Indonesia and even internationally. This program's main focus is the teaching of Malay language, literature, and culture, as well as related fields such as documentation, archives, and the collection of Malay manuscripts. Supported by lecturers who are experts in Malay literature with national teaching certifications and the use of an integrated curriculum, we are committed to providing our students with an interactive education and learning experience. Our expectation is for students to be able to apply the theories and techniques of Malay language, literature, and culture and to be able to produce academic and creative writing related to these fields.

Many career opportunities are open to graduates of Malay Literature, such as becoming journalists, socio-cultural researchers, tour guides, and working in travel agencies. In addition, our graduates also have the potential for a career at the Indonesian Embassy in Malaysia.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

sastramelayu@usu.ac.id

Undergraduate Program in Malay Literature

Accredited Baik Sekali

No. 1235/SK/BAN-PT/Ak.KP/S/IV/2023

Vision of Undergraduate Program in Malay Literature

To become a center for the study of the Malay language, literature, and culture in Indonesia that excels at a global level by 2026.

Mission of Undergraduate Program in Malay Literature

HR Center

To conduct education and become a center of competent and reliable human resources in the fields of Malay language, literature, and culture.

Research

To conduct excellent research in the fields of Malay language, literature, and culture published in national and international journals as well as oriented towards intellectual property rights (HaKI) achievements, with their results turned into written documents and data sources for researchers and learners of Malay language, literature, and culture.

Community Service

To conduct community service and utilize community service results based on Malay local wisdom to enhance competitiveness.

Cooperation

To establish cooperation with alumni, community figures, and stakeholders that align with the development of interests and talents of students and graduates of the study program.

Proficient Academics

To produce proficient academics in the fields of Malay literature, language, and culture.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Linguistics

Literature

Contact Us
Undergraduate Program in Malay Literature
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Universitas No. 19, Kampus USU Medan

+62 888-7365-452

sastramelayu@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara