MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Head Of P2KM&K Bureau: USU Strengthens Human Resources Quality In Research
Head of P2KM&K Bureau: USU Strengthens Human Resources Quality in Research
Published At
12 November 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Head of P2KM&K Bureau: USU Strengthens Human Resources Quality in Research
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 12 November 2021

Realizing USU's vision, especially improving the quality of teaching staff in the field of research, USU provides incentives for lecturers who write articles in reputable and indexed international journals, indexed and reputable proceedings, textbooks, reference books, intellectual property rights, and patents.

USU PR - Realizing USU's vision in particular to improve the quality of teaching staff in the field of research, USU provides incentives for lecturers who write articles in reputable and indexed international journals, indexed and reputable proceedings, textbooks, reference books, intellectual property rights, and patents. This was conveyed by the Head of the USU Research, Community Service and Cooperation (P2KM&K) Bureau, Surya Darma, S.Sos., when delivering the message during the morning rally at the USU Administration Center Building Courtyard, Monday (11/08/2021).

"USU has also provided science and technology dissemination assistance for USU lecturers who attend national seminars, international seminars, expos/exhibitions, visiting lecturers, and HKI," said Surya Darma.

According to Surya, this science and technology dissemination assistance will provide opportunities for USU lecturers or researchers. They can submit papers and applied research products in national and international scientific forums. "The award is also given to the best authors and researchers to provide motivation to further improve the quality and ethics of science," he said.

Surya said that the practice of "buying and selling" was rife by entering the author's name in a scientific paper by paying a sum of money whose value was adjusted to the position of the author. A researcher can be named as one of the authors, while the person concerned does not have a contribution in the scientific process to produce the work.

"As one of the leading national universities that is trying really hard to become a World Class University, USU must take preventive measures so that the practice of "buying and selling" is not carried out by lecturers at USU," said Surya.

USU's Vice Rector III has also made a circular containing an appeal to all lecturers within USU so that in the process of publishing scientific papers, they can comply with the rules and ethics. This is important so that lecturers are not trapped in activities that violate these ethics.

On the occasion, Surya also said that to support the Independent Campus Independent Learning Program (MBKM) launched by the Ministry of Education and Culture, the P2KM&K Bureau together with the Academic Bureau were conducting a selection of cooperation partners.

"The P2KM&K Bureau has carried out the initiation of approximately 20 partners who will accept USU students in the MBKM program, especially in the certified Apprenticeship scheme," he said.

Surya hopes that all units can immediately follow up on the existing MoU and implement it in the activities of the Tri Dharma of Higher Education, namely Education, Research, and Community Service. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara