MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
68th Anniversary Of USU Faculty Of Law, Scientific Oration Of The Minister Of Law And Human Rights: Omnibus Law, Government Breaks To Facilitate Investment
68th Anniversary of USU Faculty of Law, Scientific Oration of the Minister of Law and Human Rights: Omnibus Law, Government Breaks to Facilitate Investment
Published At
09 February 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
68th Anniversary of USU Faculty of Law, Scientific Oration of the Minister of Law and Human Rights: Omnibus Law, Government Breaks to Facilitate Investment
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 09 February 2022

“The state's aim as stated in the preamble to the 1945 Constitution of the Republic of Indonesia is to create fairness, affluent, and prosperous society. The state is required to be present to provide equality to the community. The state must guarantee the rights and obligations of every citizen, one of which is getting a job," said Yassona.

USU PR - The Faculty of Law, Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) celebrates its 68th Anniversary. The peak celebration was held on Friday (4/2/2022) at the Moot Court Hall, USU Faculty of Law. In the celebration, the Minister of Law and Human Rights (Menkumham) Prof. Yasonna Hamonangan Laoly, S.H., M.Sc., Ph.D. gave a scientific oration.

Yassona Laoly delivered a scientific oration entitled Urgency of the Job Creation Act for Legal Certainty after the issuance of the Constitutional Court Decision Nomoe 6/PUU-XII/2021. As is known, the Constitutional Court ruled that Law Number 11 of 2020 concerning Job Creation (UU Cipta Kerja) was formally flawed.

To that end, the Court declared that the Job Creation Act was conditionally unconstitutional. Consequently, revisions to the law must be completed within two years.

Menkumham explained the background of the issuance of the law. He said that the government took the omnibus law step as a breakthrough to increase investment interest and opportunities in Indonesia. In simple terms, omnibus law can be interpreted as making regulations by combining several rules with different regulatory substances into one regulation under one legal umbrella.

“The state's aim as stated in the preamble to the 1945 Constitution of the Republic of Indonesia is to create a just, prosperous and prosperous society. The state is required to be present to provide equality to the community. The state must guarantee the rights and obligations of every citizen, one of which is getting a job," said Yassona.

He said that the state is here to open and expand job vacancies. With the omnibus law method in the Job Creation Act, the government has moved to simplify the flow of investment and reorganize regulations on employment in Indonesia.

“Job creation is one of the tasks of the state, which is mandated in national development efforts. Through this regulation, we want to create an easier investment flow for domestic and international investors. Strategic policies are needed," he said.

Yassona added that the omnibus law method is a solution for the government to deal with employment and investment problems. So far, investment flows have been hampered by many overlapping regulations.

"This omnibus law breakthrough is an effort to break down the licensing bureaucracy that has been hampering investment faucets in Indonesia. Our licensing systems overlap, so investors are reluctant to invest,” he added.

He gave an example of the trade war between China and the United States. The United States withdrew its investments and companies in China and moved them to Vietnam. This is presumably because Vietnam has a good level of ease of investment. So companies are interested in investing.

Yassona Laoly also guarantees that his party is working hard in finalizing the decision of the Constitutional Court to revise the Job Creation Law. He said the Ministry of Law and Human Rights already knew the material to be revised.

"The Ministry of Law and Human Rights has made an inventory of the submission of a formal test by the public against the Job Creation Act. We will try to complete it in less than a year so that investment can enter immediately. We will improve the materials, content, and procedures," he explained.

On that occasion, the Rector of USU, Dr Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., said that Yassona Laoly is a role model for USU students. Yassona's work at the national level is expected to motivate USU students.

“Minister Yassona Laoly is a role model for us. Rarely do we find our alumni figures who can occupy strategic positions in national government levels. I hope students are motivated. But, on the other hand, the presence of Minister Yassona has become a unifying spirit for the alumni of the USU Faculty of Law," he said.

Muryanto Amin said that campuses must transform in preparing students who can compete. According to him, universities are currently required to be able to produce qualified graduates.

“Currently, many companies no longer look at diplomas but look at an applicant's portfolio of abilities. This is what we must prepare for our students. For that, we have to do a big transformation," he said.

This transformation is manifested in the implementation of the Tridarma of higher education. The pattern of implementation must involve the roles of lecturers and students. The collaboration is also outlined in a sustainable plan so that the three aspects of the Tri Dharma of Higher Education can be achieved optimally.

“In the past, the campus orientation was a teaching university. Shifted into a research university, we are now required to be an innovation university. How can innovation be born from students if the lecturer does not collaborate with the students in carrying out the Tridarma. Lecturers can no longer enjoy themselves with their research. We have to update and change our methods so that this collaboration can be created," he concluded.

The event was attended by officials from the Ministry of Law and Human Rights, USU's Vice-Rector, USU's Deans and Deputy Deans. In addition, the lecturers, teaching staff, and students of the USU Faculty of Law were also present both online and offline.

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara