MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Lecturer Of USU Gave Mangrove Public Lecture At FPIK UTU
Lecturer of USU Gave Mangrove Public Lecture at FPIK UTU
Published At
27 May 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Lecturer of USU Gave Mangrove Public Lecture at FPIK UTU
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 27 May 2022

USU PR – Lecturer of the Faculty of Forestry, Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Onrizal, Ph. D, who is an expert on tropical ecology and biodiversity conservation in Indonesia, was a resource person in a public lecture held by the Aquatic Resources Study Program (SDA) of the Faculty of Fisheries and Marine Sciences (FPIK), Teuku Umar University, Meulaboh, West Aceh Regency, Aceh Province.

The Vice-Dean opened the public lecture I of the UTU Faculty of Fisheries and Fisheries Science, Dr. Muhammad Rizal S.Pi, M.Si, followed by students, lecturers at FPIK UTU, the Environmental Care Movement Institute/GPL Aceh Barat and representatives from PT. MIFA Brothers. This activity is synergized with the Journey 6 Aquatic Resources field activity and the science of sustainable mangrove management and strengthening the relationship. The public lecture took place in the UTU Old Building Hall, Wednesday (18/5/2022).

In his presentation, Onrizal, PhD, said that the mangrove ecosystem is very important in maintaining the diversity of species and populations of aquatic biota, because mangroves are the basis of the food chain in coastal waters. About 2/3 of aquatic biota is only present in good mangroves and not found in damaged mangroves. For example, almost all shrimp caught in the Malacca Strait are highly dependent on mangroves.

He also presented 5 recommendations for sustainable management of mangrove ecosystems; namely 1) maintaining good mangroves as a top priority - zero degradation and deforestation, 2) restoring damaged mangroves in an integrative way, 3) developing techniques and management of productive and sustainable mangrove ponds in mangrove areas that already have ponds, 4) conducting various studies ranging from basic research, applied research to development research, and 5) increasing the promotion of sustainable mangrove use.

The day after, Thursday (19/5/2022), Onrizal, Ph.D, was appointed to guide the SDA Journey Goes to Mangrove Ecosystem, which aims to improve students' scientific abilities in mangrove vegetation analysis the basis for managing mangrove ecosystems. Vegetation analysis activities are integrated with the data analysis process resulting from the field data carried out. This vegetation analysis process was accompanied by a lecturer from SDA FPIK UTU with a focus on competence in mangrove management.

The activity was carried out in the mangrove ecosystem of Meurebo, Meulaboh and continued in the GKT UTU lecture hall. Mangrove analysis activities include determining stations and plots, collecting growth rate data, and identifying species. Vegetation analysis results (Anveg) show that the mangrove ecosystem of Meurebo, Meulaboh, is composed of Acrostichum aureum, Rhizophora apiculata Sonneratia Alba, and various types of coastal plants. The uniqueness of the location can be used as a study material related to changes in vegetation, substrate, or biota that inhabit the area. This uniqueness is illustrated by the presence of mangroves that coexist with land vegetation and freshwater plants. Onrizal gave recommendations for the management of the Meurebo ecosystem, namely maintaining the area with the main priority of zero degradation and zero deforestation. (RJ)

Author: Renny Yulia Harahap - -

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Special - -

News
Education
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara