MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
FEB And Business And FKep Support USU's Internationalisation
FEB and Business and FKep Support USU's Internationalisation
Published At
24 January 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
FEB and Business and FKep Support USU's Internationalisation
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 24 January 2023

"Knowing what we are going to do this year until December 2023 so that all of us understand (the goals) and have the same perception. And we will do it by collaborating. We can then solve the problems even though we have many limitations," explained the USU Rector.

HUMAS USU - Rector of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si visited the Faculty of Nursing and the Faculty of Economics and Business of USU in the Rektor Menyapa program on Monday (9/1/2023).

Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si said that in order to achieve the vision of the campus, it requires a common perception and great commitment. Thoughtful collaboration is expected to overcome various limitations to fulfil the indicators that need to be met.

"Knowing what we are going to do this year until December 2023 so that all of us understand (the goals) and have the same perception. And we will do it by collaborating. We can then solve the problems even though we have many limitations," explained the USU Rector.

The Dean of the Faculty of Economics and Business of Universitas Sumatera Utara, Dr Fadli SE, M.Si, firmly said that in the future, the Faculty of Economics and Business will continue to improve in various sectors and support USU in obtaining international accreditation recognition.

Furthermore, to support this goal, the Faculty of Economics and Business believes that one of the ways to create a conducive academic atmosphere is to improve the infrastructure.

"It increases USU's enthusiasm to gain recognition for international accreditation. First, by improving infrastructure and facilities is one of the faculty's priorities in the first year. Because every year it exists. A fair distribution of faculties that will have their infrastructure improved to support a conducive academic atmosphere for the learning process," said Dr Fadli.

The Dean of the Faculty of Nursing of Universitas Sumatera Utara Dr. Dudut Tanjung, S.Kp., M.Kep., Sp.KMB appreciated the rector's visit because the presence of the USU Rector signified the Faculty of Nursing to work together to achieve Key Performance Indicators, which include internationalisation.

The Faculty of Nursing believes that the vision of USU can be achieved by starting from the aspects of the e-learning system management, innovation in teaching, community service, and infrastructure.

"With the presence of the rector to the Faculty of Nursing, we are able to understand the program of internationalisation in 2023. Earlier, we noted that it was related to the internationalisation of the campus and achieving key performance indicators. The improvement would be from system management of e-learning, when it comes to the system as a whole, whether it's from lecturers with their innovations, teachings and updated content materials through research and publications, community service and also infrastructure facilities," said the Dean of the USU Faculty of Nursing.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara