MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Engineering
Architect Professional Study Program
Profession Program
Architect Professional
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Architect Professional Study Program is an advanced level education program that specializes architecture students in understanding, planning, and implementing architectural projects with high professional standards, ethics, and skills in accordance with industry demands. The program aims to prepare Undergraduate Program in Architecture graduates to become licensed architects who are competent and understand aspects of sustainability and conservation of natural resources in building and environmental design.

The vision of the Architect Professional Study Program is to become the best academic community nationally ranked in 2030 in the implementation of professional architectural education that is able to educate students to be able to work professionally in order to create a harmonious built environment and enlighten and enrich the repertoire of life for the wider community. Professional Architect graduates have very broad job prospects, they are in great demand in the construction industry, architectural consultants, and also have the potential to establish their own architectural business. Students who complete this professional program will be awarded the title of Architect (Ar) and are ready to contribute to the development and planning of the built environment with the competencies they have.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

ppar@usu.ac.id

Architect Professional Study Program

Accredited B

10190/SK/BAN-PT/Ak/PP/XII/2022

Vision of Architect Professional Study Program

To become the best academic community nationally in 2030 in organizing professional architect education that can educate students to work professionally to create a harmonious built environment and enlighten and enrich the life of the general public.

Mission of Architect Professional Study Program

Human Resource Development Forum

Organizing autonomy-based higher education, which is a forum for developing the character and professionalism of human resources based on empowerment which contains the spirit of democratization of education that recognizes plurality with an educational orientation that emphasizes aspects of finding alternative solutions to actual problems based on scientific, moral, and conscience studies.

Agents of Change

Producing graduates who become agents of change as a force of modernization in the life of the general public, who have scientific competence, relevance, and strong competitiveness, and who behave with ethical scholarship.

Academic Quality Improvement

Implementing, developing, and improving education, research culture, and community service programs to improve academic quality by developing excellent knowledge helpful in changing the lives of the general public for the better.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Assistant Design Architect

Assistant Construction Management Architect

Contact Us
Architect Professional Study Program
Universitas Sumatera Utara

J07.207 Room, 2nd Floor of the J07 Building of the Department of Architecture, Jl. Perpustakaan, USU Padang Bulan Campus

(+62) - 81265409088

ppar@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara