MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
1,150 USU Graduates Inaugurated, Rector Delivers Three Messages
1,150 USU Graduates Inaugurated, Rector Delivers Three Messages
Published At
09 June 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
1,150 USU Graduates Inaugurated, Rector Delivers Three Messages
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 09 June 2022

The Rector conveyed several messages to the graduates. First, graduates must be proud to be USU alumni. It is because USU is ranked 1201+ in the world with the QS Stars 3 Quacquarelli Symonds (QS) World University Rankings (QS-WUR) and ranked 501-550 out of 687 educational institutions in the Asian region assessed (QS AUR ). USU also ranked 16th Universities in Indonesia in the AD Scientific Index 2022 Version 1 version, the 17th best universities in Indonesia according to the Times Higher Education (THE) World University Ranking (WUR) 2022.

USU PR - Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si again inaugurated 1,150 graduates in the third graduation period for the 2021/2022 Academic Year. This force fulfills the number of USU graduates to date as many as 236,424 people. This procession was held in a hybrid manner at the USU Auditorium Monday (06/06/2022).

In his remarks, the Rector of USU said that this graduation took the theme "Strengthening the Transformation Contribution of USU Alumni as Problem Solvers".

"Today's graduation theme emphasizes that we must continue to take advantage of the post-pandemic momentum to transform. Anyone of us, in particular, alumni of the USU, must take advantage of this momentum to transform and contribute to advancing Indonesia," he said.

The Rector conveyed several messages to the graduates. First, graduates must be proud to be USU alumni. It is because USU is ranked 1201+ in the world with the QS Stars 3 Quacquarelli Symonds (QS) World University Rankings (QS-WUR) and ranked 501-550 out of 687 educational institutions in the Asian region assessed (QS AUR ). USU also ranked 16th Universities in Indonesia in the AD Scientific Index 2022 Version 1 version, the 17th best university in Indonesia according to the Times Higher Education (THE) World University Ranking (WUR) 2022.

“Secondly, graduates must be alumni of the USU who have integrity. Because currently, the industrial world and the world of work are experiencing a very significant shift. Therefore graduates are expected to have a strong motivation to win in the hypercompetitive labor market, and graduates must demonstrate the skills and passion that graduates have and honed seriously at USU," continued the Rector.

Third, graduates must strengthen and expand networking because the knowledge that graduates now have must be continuously added, updated, and modified with other sciences to produce ideas that are in accordance with the changes needed in the global market era. By collaborating and networking will help graduates in responding to all challenges at work and profession.

"The important message that I convey, hopefully, will bring you to the career path and achievements you dream of. We at this campus will always continue to facilitate, help, and pray for you to contribute to prosperity for you and the people of Indonesia," he hoped.

Graduates are also expected to be able to help with university assignments by always providing information about graduates' activities in the world of work after graduation today by utilizing the Tracer Study platform at the tracerstudy.usu.ac.id link provided by the university.

"Always keep the link tracerstudy.usu.ac.id open because it helps the USU in recording alumni development, which is one of the indicators for evaluating the university's reputation in WCU," said Dr. Muryanto.

There is something unique about this graduation. Before the graduation procession began, 1,500 graduates played TikTok together. Then at the end of the graduation session, the Rector, accompanied by the vice-rector and university secretaries, presented several songs. Such as Melukis Senja dari Budi Doremi, Ananda Burju, Lagu Keroncong, Menunggu Kamu-Anji, Cinta Karena Cinta-Judika, Hati-hati di Jalan-Tulus, and Bento- Iwan Fals.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara