MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Wins 9 Prestigious Awards At Diktiristek Awards
USU Wins 9 Prestigious Awards at Diktiristek Awards
Published At
12 January 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Wins 9 Prestigious Awards at Diktiristek Awards
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 12 January 2023

"Next year, USU will concentrate on the learning programs, student affairs, organizations, resources, PDDIKTI, and national strategic programs. Hopefully, the planned activity program for 2023 will be able to meet the specified indicators," said the rector.

Humas USU - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) has received brilliant results in the Award for Higher Education, Research and Technology (Diktiristek) under the Public Relations and Cooperation category in 2022. A total of 9 prestigious awards were won at the award ceremony held in Jakarta on Thursday (15/12/2022) night.

The prestigious awards for the Sub Category of Public Relations are Gold Winner for the Category of Profile Video and Category of Report. Silver Winner for Press Release Category, Integrated Service Unit (ULT) and Public Relations Personnel. And finally, Bronze Winner for the Magazine Category.

As for the Cooperation Sub-Category, USU brought home the Silver Winner award for two categories: the International Cooperation Category and the Category of Best Growth of Key Performance Indicators Point 6.

USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., accompanied by the Head of Public Relations, Protocol and Promotion Amalia Meutia, MPsi., Psychologist, who came in person to receive the award said that the award of two categories of Diktiristek Award 2022 to USU, which are Public Relations and Cooperation, is a strong encouragement to achieve other category awards.

"Next year, USU will concentrate on the learning programs, student affairs, organizations, resources, PDDIKTI, and national strategic programs. Hopefully, the planned activity program for 2023 will be able to meet the specified indicators," said Mury.

The Rector said that the award was a recognition of USU's performance over the years. Programs that have been launched are on track, and it is hoped that in the future, they can continue to be improved.

Head of the Office of Public Relations, Protocol and Promotion, Amalia Meutia, MPsi, Psychologist, is grateful for USU's achievements in the Diktiristek Award 2022, especially for the sub-category of Public Relations. USU received seven awards from 8 categories that were contested.

"Alhamdulillah, the achievement of the Public Relations of USU in the Diktiristek Award has made positive progress from year to year. The improvement compared to the previous year was quite significant.

Of course, we give thanks to Allah SWT for this achievement and thank the leaders, the entire academic community and the community," she said.

She also expressed her appreciation towards the USU Public Relations Team, who have worked hard to give their best in the branding of USU.

"Performance is a necessity, while appreciation is a bonus. Of course, this PR achievement will be a motivation in the following year to work even better," she said.

Acting Secretary of the Directorate General of Diktiristek Cici Sri Cahyandari said the Diktiristek Award is an annual event and is evidence and commitment to appreciate the performance of higher education institutions. Especially to build superior human resources and have an impact on the people of the country and the nation.

She explained that the Diktiristek Award started with only Public Relations Award and Journalist and Media Award, which was initially held in 2017—followed by the addition of the Cooperation Award starting in 2021.

For 2022, it is completed with the Higher Education Database Award, Learning and Student Affairs Award, Resources Award, Organisations Award, Research Technology and Community Service Award, as well as the Award for National Priorities and the Award for Program Supporting Partners.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Achievement
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara