MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Research
Talenta Publisher
Talenta Publisher
Universitas Sumatera Utara
Talenta Journal of Universitas Sumatera Utara

Since 2008, the Directorate of Research has organized several research groups to implement strategic research topics. These research groups were established based on the Decree of the Rector and have research topics that align with USU's strategic research topics. The research groups consist of researchers from various disciplines who have similar interests and are competent in their respective fields.

Universitas Sumatera Utara Talenta Conference

Since 2008, the Directorate of Research has organized several research groups to implement strategic research topics. These research groups were established based on the Decree of the Rector and have research topics that align with USU's strategic research topics. The research groups consist of researchers from various disciplines who have similar interests and are competent in their respective fields.

Frequently Asked Questions
What is Talenta Publisher?

Talenta Publisher is a scientific publisher from the Universitas Sumatera Utara that aims to publish research and scientific papers, including journals, books, and papers, to support the development of science.

Who can publish in Talenta Publisher?

Talenta Publisher is open to scholars, researchers, and students from both within and outside the Universitas Sumatera Utara who have quality scientific papers and according to predetermined standards.

How do I submit a manuscript for publication?

Manuscript submission can be done by creating an account on the Talenta Publisher website or logging into an existing account, then following the manuscript submission guidelines available on the publication page according to the field relevant to your research or scientific paper.

Does Talenta Publisher support open access?

Yes, Talenta Publisher supports open access to facilitate the spread of knowledge, so that the public can access scientific journals for free.

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara