MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Medicine
Specialist-1 Program In Pediatrics
Spesialist-1 Program
Pediatrics
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Specialist Program in Pediatrics of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Faculty of Medicine (FK) focuses on education in pediatrics, also known as child health science. This field of education is appealing to individuals who aspire to become a health worker, especially a child health specialist or a pediatrician.

This study program has a vision and mission to improve the quality of health services through the work of skilled and ethical pediatricians who can adapt to the times and medical technology to improve the physical well-being of children in Indonesia. Students who have completed this study program will hold the Pediatrics Specialist (Sp.A.) degree.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

sekretariat.dika.fkusu@gmail.com

Specialist-1 Program in Pediatrics

Accredited A

No. 0773/LAM-PTKes/Akr/Spe/XII/2017

Vision of Specialist-1 Program in Pediatrics

To establish the Pediatrics Study Program of the Universitas Sumatera Utara Faculty of Medicine as a provider of quality Pediatrics Specialist Doctor Education by 2024, towards a center of excellence in tropical medicine and preventive oncology in Southeast Asia.

Mission of Specialist-1 Program in Pediatrics

Education, Research, and Community Service

To enhance the quality of education, research, and community service consistently, effectively, and efficiently following the advancements in medical science and technology through good organizational governance and quality assurance systems.

Agents of Change

To produce graduates who become agents of change as a force of modernization in the broader community, equipped with scientific competence, relevance, and competitiveness, as well as behave professionally and ethically in the frame of interprofessional education/collaboration (IPE/IPC).

Public Leadership

To establish public leadership through the benefits of research, as well as community service that has an impact on epidemiology, particularly in tropical diseases and preventive oncology, oriented towards product and scientific development.

Independent and Professional

To establish an independent and professional Pediatrics Study Program in the management and development of institutions and build cooperation with institutions both domestically and internationally, particularly in tropical medicine and preventive oncology.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Allergy Immunology

Endocrinology

Pediatric Intensive Care Emergencies

Gastroenterohepatology

Hematooncology

Infection and Tropical Disease

Cardiology

Nephrology

Neonatology

Neurology

Respirology

Nutrition and Metabolic Diseases

Growth, Development, and Social Pediatrics

Contact Us
Specialist-1 Program in Pediatrics
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Bunga Lau No.17, Kemenangan Tani, Kec. Medan Tuntungan, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20136

(061) - 8211045

sekretariat.dika.fkusu@gmail.com

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara