MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Engineering
Master's Program In Architectural Engineering
Master Program
Architectural Engineering
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Master's Program in Architectural Engineering has been established since 2002 and is an advanced study from the Undergraduate Program in Architecture. The curriculum in this program is designed to provide in-depth understanding and skills in the field of architecture. The main focus of the program includes architectural research, innovative design, advanced construction techniques, and sustainable planning. This program aims to train students to become architects who are able to face complex challenges in the modern architectural world.

The vision of this Master's Program in Architectural Engineering is to become a superior master's program in architecture that is able to compete at the national and international levels, based on local wisdom and the application of technology. Graduates of the Master's Program in Architectural Engineering have extensive job opportunities in various sectors, such as becoming senior architects, urban planners, or design consultants. They can also be involved in sustainable development projects and make a significant impact on the built environment. Join Universitas Sumatera Utara Master's Program in Architectural Engineering to co-create iconic works that benefit the world of architecture. Students who complete this study program will earn a Master of Architecture (M.Ars) degree and are ready to contribute to the architecture industry with their knowledge and skills.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

marsitektur@usu.ac.id

Master's Program in Architectural Engineering

Accredited Very Good

4854/SK/BAN-PT/Ak/M/VII/2024

Vision of Master's Program in Architectural Engineering

To become a superior Master's Program in Architectural Engineering with the ability to compete nationally and internationally based on local wisdom and technology.

Mission of Master's Program in Architectural Engineering

Education

Organizing education in the field of architecture and urban areas based on local wisdom to prepare graduates who are dignified, innovative, have integrity, resilient, wise, and able to compete internationally.

Applied Research

Developing innovative applied research progressively in the field of architecture and urban science based on TALENTA (Tropical science and medicine, Agroindustry, Local wisdom, Energy (sustainable), Natural resources (biodiversity, forest, marine, mine, tourism), Technology (appropriate) and Arts/ethnic).

Research

Conducting research in the field of innovative architecture and urban science to deliver knowledge and technology that can answer the challenges in the era of industrial revolution 4.0 towards the development of society 5.0 era.

Community Service

Developing community service through research in the field of architecture and urbanism that is creative in solving problems and can be useful for improving the welfare of society.

Partnership

Developing partnerships with other parties, both at the national and international levels, in the fields of academics, research, and community service.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Architecture Studies

Urban Development Management

Contact Us
Master's Program in Architectural Engineering
Universitas Sumatera Utara

J7 Building, Jalan Perpustakaan, USU Padang Bulan Campus

+6282369006735

marsitektur@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara