MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Realizing Green Campus, USU's Cycling Program Is Reactivated
Realizing Green Campus, USU's Cycling Program is Reactivated
Published At
10 October 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Realizing Green Campus, USU's Cycling Program is Reactivated
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Sunday, 10 October 2021

Accelerating the USU bicycle program, Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., discussed the plan for the continuation of the program with PT Anagata Dhia Karya Mandiri (Adhikari) and emphasized that the USU campus area would continue to improve with the eco green concept.

PR USU - The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) campus bicycle program that once existed will be reactivated to realize a green campus.

Accelerating USU's bicycle program, Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., discussed the plan for the continuation of the program with PT Anagata Dhia Karya Mandiri (Adhikari) and emphasized that the USU campus area will continue to improve with the eco green concept.

“Currently there are campus bicycles, but they are not optimal. So we want to do another study, so that students can use bicycles on campus. We are still discussing what the master plan will look like, hopefully next year it can be realized with help from Adhikari," said the Rector, after discussing with PT Adhikari at the Rector's office, Wednesday (10/6/2021). The Rector also invited USU students to regularly use USU bicycles during face-to-face lectures.

“First, the goal is for students to be healthy, reduce carbon gas emissions and make traffic on campus cleaner. There are many after-effects if we promote bicycles on campus,” he said.

Through bike sharing, USU contributes to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the campus area and provides access to environmentally friendly transportation for the USU campus community.

President Director Adhikari M Saifullah, explained that this visit to USU was not the first. Previously, in 2015 USU launched the USU Bike program. Adhikari provides support through a USAID ICED (Indonesia Clean Energy Development) grant.

The Campus Bike Program basically carries the concept of sharing. The concept of bike sharing is a campus bicycle system with shared use. It is an innovative medium of transportation suitable for short distance walkers, by providing users with bicycles that can be picked up at certain points and returned at other points.

Adhakari also appreciates the USU Rector's vision of a green campus and hopes that USU can be a pioneer in North Sumatra for the development of environmentally friendly transportation on campus.

“This bicycle is of course for the campus community, it can be used for free within a certain time. There will be memberships and all kinds of things that will be studied more deeply," he explained.

He explained, the main focus at this time is how to get students or campus communities to use bicycles or pedestrians properly. After this meeting, Adhikari will discuss internally to confirm the opportunity to continue the previous cooperation regarding the procurement of USU bicycles. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: M. Andriansyah - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara