MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
For The First Time, USU Hospital Vaccines Pregnant Women
For the First Time, USU Hospital Vaccines Pregnant Women
Published At
30 August 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
For the First Time, USU Hospital Vaccines Pregnant Women
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 30 August 2021

USU PUBLIC RELATIONS-MEDAN: In order to make the national vaccination a success, the Teaching Hospital of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Hospital held a vaccination for pregnant women. The vaccination was held in one of the medical service rooms at USU Hospital on Wednesday (8/15/2021). It was seen that pregnant women as vaccine participants queued to apply health protocols by keeping their distance and wearing masks.

dr. Muhammad Rizki Yaznil, M.Ked, Sp.OG (K), Director of Medical and Nursing Services at USU Hospital, explained that this activity was an effort by USU Hospital to provide maximum service to the community. The implementation of the vaccine is carried out in accordance with the recommendations of the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Indonesia.

“The implementation of this vaccine for pregnant women is the first in Medan. We want to provide maximum service to the community, in addition to helping the government to make the vaccination successful. We will start vaccinating pregnant women after directives from the Ministry of Health and POGI,”Yaznil said.

As is known, the government through the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Indonesia has issued circular Letter Number HR.02.01/I/2007/2021 concerning Covid-19 Vaccination for Pregnant Women and Screening Adjustments in the Implementation of COvid-19 Vaccination. The Circular is in accordance with the recommendations of the Indonesia Obstetrics and Gynecology Association (POGI).

Furthermore, Yaznil explained that the vaccine for pregnant women will be carried out regularly at USU Hospital. USU Hospital will open a vaccine service for pregnant women two to three times a week.

“We carry out regularly in accordance with the availability of existing vaccines. Sometimes the stock of vaccine hasn’t arrived yet, that’s why vaccinations lag. We hope the government can focus on the availability of this vaccine,” he said.

dr.Vita Camellia M.Ked., Sp.KJ who was also responsible for the implementation, also conveyed the same thing as dr.Yaznil. Delivered on the same occasion, he mentioned that the enthusiasm of pregnant women for vaccines is very high, so there is a need for sufficient vaccine stocks.

We see the enthusiasm for being vaccinated is very high. SO we hope the stock remains available. Through this vaccine, I hope that other pregnant women are motivated, because there is information that many pregnant women are still afraid to be vaccinated,” Vita said.

Vaccination on that day was scheduled to give the first dose to 50 pregnant women. Usng the CoronaVac vaccine (Sinovac), pregnant women who are allowed to take the vaccine are those who have had a gestational age of more than 13 weeks.

“Pregnant women are vulnerable population, so they need to be vaccinated. Previously we were quite confused, on the one hand pregnant women are vulnerable but can’t eat drug carelessly. Especially those whose gestational age is under 12 weeks, because the formation of total organs is still on progress,” Yaznil explained.

In closing, he invited other pregnant women to participate in the vaccine. USU Hospital has provided an openly accessible registration link. Vaccine activities start at one o’clock in the afternoon until finished, with a quota of 50 people per day.(©ULC)

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Rizki Hakim Lubis - PR

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara