MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Outstanding Achievements In The DIKTIRISTEK Awads 2023
USU Outstanding Achievements in the DIKTIRISTEK Awads 2023
Published At
29 December 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Outstanding Achievements in the DIKTIRISTEK Awads 2023
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 29 December 2023

At the Diktiristek Awards 2023 held in Jakarta on Wednesday (13/12/2023), USU won three gold awards in the Public Relations (Humas) category for subcategories Press Releases, Social Media, and Integrated Service Units (ULT) while receiving a silver award for the subcategory Humas Personnel and the Collaboration category

USU - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) achieved outstanding achievements at the prestigious awards ceremony organized by the Directorate General of Higher Education, Research, and Technology (Ditjen Diktiristek) of the Ministry of Education, Culture, Research, and Technology (Kemendikbudristek) entitled Diktiristek Awards 2023.

During the Diktiristek Awards 2023 held in Jakarta on Wednesday (13/12/2023), USU won three gold awards in the Public Relations (Humas) category for subcategories Press Releases, Social Media, and Integrated Service Units (ULT) while receiving a silver award for the subcategory Humas Personnel and the Collaboration category.

USU Rector Prof. Muryanto Amin, SSos, MSi, who directly received the award in Jakarta, stated that the received awards are the result of the consistency of the transformation that has been advocated. "Congratulations to the Humas Team, Integrated Service Unit and Collaboration, who successfully won the Diktiristek Awards 2023," he said.

The Rector emphasized that the awards received are an appreciation from Kemendikbudristek that USU has been able to meet the assessment indicators conducted by the jury. Therefore, consider this achievement as motivation in maintaining public relations, service, and collaboration standards. "Maintain what is good, improve existing shortcomings," he said.

Prof Mury reminded us that the "Transformation Towards the Ultimate" tagline should be interpreted as a continuous process. This means that what is already good should be further improved to become even better.

"USU must continue to strive for improvement. The highest award achieved does not mean stopping the process but must continue and be enhanced," said this political science professor.

Head of Public Relations, Promotion, and Protocol, Amalia Meutia, MPsi, Psychologist, expressed gratitude for the achievements. "Alhamdulillah, USU's Public Relations has again achieved outstanding reward at the Diktiristek Awards. Especially in the Humas Awards category, USU became the state university with the highest number of awards and the best score in the PTNBH class," she said.

She stated that USU should be proud because its competitors in the PTNBH class are Indonesia's largest and best campuses. "This achievement is the result of hard work and evidence of the transformation of Public Relations.

Over the past three years, the team has been accelerating, and its achievements continue to increase year by year. This achievement is also thanks to the support of USU's leadership and the collaboration of all academic communities involved in USU's achievements," she added.

The gold winner award of the Diktiristek Awards 2023 is also a positive note for the Integrated Service Unit (ULT) Team. The unit, whose formation was initiated by Rector Prof. Muryanto Amin and included in the Rector's priority work program in bureaucratic reform, previously only received a silver winner.

"Alhamdulillah, thanks to the collaboration of all teams, the Integrated Service Unit of USU finally became the best (gold winner) in PTNBH at the Diktiristek Awards 2023. ULT continues to innovate by improving digitalization services such as the USU Administration Service Information System (SILA USU) and public services that are more comfortable, such as a comfortable waiting room, self-service provision, lactation room, kids zone, and beverage corner," said the Head of the Integrated Service Unit (ULT) for the 2021-2023 period, drg Siti Salmiah, Sp.KGA.Subsp.KKA(K) was accompanied by the Coordinator of the Integrated Service Unit of USU, Ika Dama Yanti Nasution.

Previously, Acting Director General of Diktiristek Prof. Ir. Nizam, M.Sc., DIC., Ph.D., in his welcome speech, said that the Diktiristek Awards originated from the Humas and Journalism Awards in 2020 and expanded with the Diktiristek Humas Award to all State Universities and partners in the Kemendikbudristek environment. "This award strengthens the bond between campuses and the industrial world in education, research, and community service," he added.

As information, the Diktiristek Awards cover the National Priority Awards, Collaboration Partners, Collaboration, Public Relations, Higher Education Database, Learning and Student Affairs, Resources, Institutions, Research, Technology, Community Service, and Journalists and Media.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Achievement
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara