MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
FK USU Inaugurates 160 New Doctors
FK USU Inaugurates 160 New Doctors
Published At
07 May 2025
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
FK USU Inaugurates 160 New Doctors
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 07 May 2025

"We know that health issues are the most important foundation issues. Therefore, the factor that most determines whether the foundation of our health is good or not, related to medical personnel, is the position of doctors. When choosing a medical program, it is a good intention, a commitment, and when it is obtained, it is a dedication," said Prof Mury.

 

Public Relations USU—The Faculty of Medicine (FK) of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held a Doctor's Oath-Taking procession for 160 Doctor Education and Professional Study Program Period III Academic Year 2024/2025 graduates on Monday (05/05/2025) at the USU Student Center.

 

In his remarks, USU Rector Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos, M.Si., who was present in person, as well as the parents of one of the graduates, conveyed a deep message about the doctor's profession and commitment to the world of medicine. He stressed the importance of doctors' role in determining the health system's quality.

 

"We know that health issues are the most important foundation issues. Therefore, the factor that most determines whether the foundation of our health is good or not, related to medical personnel, is the position of doctors. When choosing a medical program, it is a good intention, a commitment, and when it is obtained, it is a dedication," he said.

 

In addition, he expressed his appreciation to all academic staff for their dedication to guiding the students. He also emphasized that a society would be unable to develop properly without the contribution of medical personnel, including doctors.

 

"We thank the lecturers who have educated our children so that they have taken their doctor's oath today. Without a health base contributed by people or medical devices as well as doctors, a society will not be able to progress," he added.

 

The 160 new doctors sworn in consisted of 103 women and 57 men. Of these, 97 people achieved cum laude predicate.

 

Dean of FK USU, Prof. Dr. dr. Aldy Safruddin Rambe, Sp.S (K). revealed that taking the doctor's oath is part of the initial preparation for graduates to begin serving the community. After this, the graduates will enter the intensive program stage for one year under the supervision of doctors as an advanced professional education process.

 

"The doctor's oath-taking ceremony that we have witnessed prepares new doctors to devote themselves to the service of society. New doctors will receive training through an intensive program guided by supervising doctors for the next 1 year," he said.

 

He said the graduates are responsible for working professionally, upholding ethics, and complying with all rules. He hopes the graduates can become agents of change in their respective environments, maintain the good name of the alma mater, and continue to establish communication.

 

"You must always work professionally, uphold ethics, and comply with all regulations. Be agents of change in your respective environments, keep the good name of the alma mater, and don't forget to maintain communication always," he added.

 

Furthermore, the Dean said that the faculty continues to strive to maintain the quality of education implementation at all levels, with supervisory responsibility attached to each study program within FK USU.

 

“We always try to supervise the implementation of education at all levels. Each study program at FK USU is responsible for the daily supervision of the education implementation process,” he said.

 

Dr. Muhammad Alfian Fachrezi, a newly appointed doctor, revealed that physical strength and mental endurance are essential aspects of education. He said that the process was not just a challenge but a learning experience. He also said that his success could not be separated from the role of lecturers, parents, and the gift of God.

 

"In medicine, what must be strengthened is physically and mentally the most important. It is not a challenge but a lesson to improve our mentality in the future. The most meritorious are our teachers and parents; don't forget that this is all due to the blessings of Allah SWT as well," he said.

News
SDGs 4
SDGs
SDGs 3
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara