MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Economics And Business
Master's Program In Economic Science
Master Program
Economic Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Master Program in Economic Science at Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is a postgraduate program focusing on student-centred learning. The main objective is to produce graduates who can evaluate social and economic problems by adopting the latest economic theories and empirical methods and make critical scientific studies that provide cross-disciplinary solutions and are recognized nationally and internationally.

The vision of this study program is to become a leader in the research and development of science and technology and to produce graduates who excel in economics in line with leading universities in ASEAN by 2030. Graduates of the USU Master Program in Economic Science are expected to have strong academic expertise and to become leaders who are resilient, highly competitive, and have integrity in various economic and industrial sectors. The degree given to students who complete this study program is a Master of Science (M.Si.).

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

miepusu@yahoo.com

Master's Program in Economic Science

Accredited Excellent

221/DE/A.5/AR.10/II/2023

Vision of Master's Program in Economic Science

To be recognized as a leading Master Study Program and a role model in the research and development of science and technology, as well as producing graduates who excel in the field of economics in line with leading universities in ASEAN in 2030.

Mission of Master's Program in Economic Science

Education

Conducting educational processes, research activities and the application of economics in a systematic, comprehensive and sustainable manner towards improving human values and the welfare of the wider community.

Research

Enhancing the culture of mastery of the latest science and technology and scientific research capabilities characterized by an increase in the number of national and international publications.

Cooperations

Fostering and expanding scientific cooperation with various leading universities and other institutions in Indonesia and ASEAN.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Monetary and Banking Economics

Development Planning

International Economics and Trade

Contact Us
Master's Program in Economic Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

JL. Prof T. M. Hanafiah, Kampus USU (Fakultas Ekonomi dan Bisnis, Gedung Pascasarjana Ilmu Ekonomi) Padang Bulan, Kec. Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20155

061-8225464

miepusu@yahoo.com

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara