MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Engineering
Doctoral Program In Mechanical Engineering Science
Doctoral Program
Mechanical Engineering Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Doctoral Program in Mechanical Engineering Science is an advanced study program that focuses on mechanical engineering in the context of development. Established in 2009, this program aims to develop science and technology in the field of mechanical engineering. The curriculum of this doctoral program is designed with an emphasis on doctoral research, which begins at the beginning of the semester with the courses Research Methodology and Proposal Preparation. The program also integrates interdisciplinary techniques to provide a broad and deep understanding of mechanical engineering and its future applications.

The vision of the Doctoral Program in Mechanical Engineering Science is to make it a doctoral program that has international competitiveness with academic excellence that reflects local wealth. Graduates of this program are expected to not only have strong technical competence, but also have a deep understanding of mechanical engineering applications in various cultural, environmental, and social contexts. The students who complete this study program will be awarded a Doctoral degree (Dr.) and are ready to contribute to the development of mechanical engineering science with dedication and broad understanding.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

magistermesin@usu.ac.id

Doctoral Program in Mechanical Engineering Science

Accredited Baik Sekali

9332/SK/BAN-PT/Akred/D/VII/2021

Vision of Doctoral Program in Mechanical Engineering Science

Making an internationally competitive mechanical engineering doctoral program that has academic excellence characterized by local wealth.

Mission of Doctoral Program in Mechanical Engineering Science

Academic Climate

Creating a conducive academic climate in achieving the teaching-learning process, research and community service.

Excellent Graduates

Organizing a doctoral education in mechanical engineering with a competency-based curriculum to produce excellent graduates who are able to answer the demands of the national and international markets.

Problem Solving

Encourage and cultivate research activities and problem solving faced by the community.

International Competitiveness

Developing internationally competitive academic excellence characterized by local wealth by synergizing with government, industry and alumni.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Materials and Structures

Energy Conversion Engineering

Contact Us
Doctoral Program in Mechanical Engineering Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Almamater, Padang Bulan, Kec. Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20155

(+62) - 618213250

magistermesin@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara