MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
University Activity
Oxalis Dehradunensis Raizada Anti Aging Cream
Oxalis Dehradunensis Raizada Anti Aging Cream
Published At
02 February 2023
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
Oxalis Dehradunensis Raizada Anti Aging Cream
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Thursday, 02 February 2023

This innovative product is developed with natural raw materials. It has good properties to reduce exposure to free radicals, wrinkles and shrink pores on the face, and significantly reduce blemishes and spots on women's skin. By utilising this anti-aging cream, farmers can better care for and maintain healthy skin and reduce the risk of premature aging in farmers.

Skin health innovation has been a popular business trend in the past few years. However, the products produced generally contain chemicals that sometimes have a negative impact on users. Along with the development of technology and the increasing trend of public confidence to \"back to nature\", the significant biodiversity in Indonesia is one of the supporting factors for the development of skincare products from natural ingredients.

 The increasing effects of skin damage caused by factors that trigger aging require chemoprevention strategies by utilising natural material extract as natural sources, such as medicinal plants, that are safer and more effective in the treatment process, in contrast to the innovation produced by the USU team of Community Service that utilises natural ingredients, namely acem-acem leaves (Oxalis dehradunensis Raizada), which have been studied to increase skin moisture and effectively remove facial spots. This innovative product is a solution developed with natural raw materials and has good properties to reduce exposure to free radicals, able to reduce wrinkles and shrink pores on the face, and significantly able to reduce blemishes and spots on women's skin. Through this anti-aging cream, farmers can better care for and maintain healthy skin and reduce the risk of premature aging in farmers.

 Through community service activities focused on two villages, Sumber Mufakat Village, Kabanjahe District, as a partner location producing acem-acem leaves, and Karang Gading Village, Secanggang District as a partner who has been using and testing the Comunity Service team's innovative products, USU lecturer team conducted education and training for the use of these materials. This service was led by Dr Eka Lestari Mahyuni, SKM, M.Kes, from the Faculty of Public Health, Universitas Sumatera Utara together with Prof Dr Urip Harahap, Apt, and involved 5 (five) students from the Faculty of Public Health, Universitas Sumatera Utara.

 This activity aims to empower women farmers in Karang Gading Village, Secanggang District, Langkat Regency and Sumber Mufakat Village, Kabanjahe District, Karo Regency. These two areas were brought together in a virtual socialisation and FGD, which was attended by both village chiefs, Karang Gading Village Chief, Bahrul and Sumber Mufakat Village Chief, Drs Dinis Karo-Karo as well as the Wanita Tani Tangguh Farmers Group from Karang Gading Secanggang Village and Karo women farmers as well as officials from Sumber Mufakat Kabanjahe Village. Participants who attended the socialisation were selected to act as business agents who will be entrepreneurs of acem-acem leaf extract anti-aging cream.

 The activity to utilise acem-acem leaf extract anti-aging cream is so that farmers can also get the benefits of cream that can moisturise the skin, shrink pores and reduce spots and wrinkles on the face due to sun exposure and free radicals. Dr Eka hopes that although women farmers are always on the move in the fields under the sun, they can also maintain their skin health so that they remain beautiful and youthful. Farmers generally rarely pay attention to the health of their skin and even feel distressed because they are always exposed to the sun and free radicals during their activities in the fields. With the anti-aging cream that has been produced through laboratory research, it is proven that it can improve the skin condition of farmers who generally experience black spots or dull and dry faces.

 The acem-acem leaf extract in this anti-aging cream formula has a lot of water content and has been proven to have significant moisturising properties of almost 300%. Regularly using and wearing the cream product can reduce the negative impact on facial skin from premature aging due to sun exposure during outdoor activities, especially farming activities. \"Not only that, from the test results with this cream sample, it can also significantly fade dark spots on the face, even though the spots are already included in the contact dermatitis category as experienced by farmers. The anti-aging ability that fades wrinkles and large pores on the face can also be overcome by using anti-aging cream regularly, with 5% and 7% extract levels,\" said Dr Eka.

 Efforts to downstream the innovative products are part of the community service carried out by USU Community Service team through educating and training female farmers who are often exposed to pesticides, sunlight and free radicals during their agricultural activities. The Community Service team together with USU students assisted and educated the farming community so that the sales of anti-aging cream could be an additional income for the farming community. The team also provided samples of antiaging cream products to business agents from both regions to help introduce the products and help with early marketing steps that farmers can do. 

Article
Research Article
University Activity
Research Activity
Find More Activity
University Activity
USU Lecturer Concern on the Extinction of Orangutan Tapanuli
University Activity
USU professor turns shrimp shell waste into face serum
University Activity
USU Research Collaboration Lowers Stunting Rate in Sergai

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara