MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Holds Online Training On Website Content Filling And Article Publishing Editorial At OJS
USU Holds Online Training on Website Content Filling and Article Publishing Editorial at OJS
Published At
25 August 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Holds Online Training on Website Content Filling and Article Publishing Editorial at OJS
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 25 August 2021

USU Public Relations: Bureau of Research, Community Service, and Cooperation, Universitas Sumatera Utara held Online Training for Website Content Filling and Editorial Publishing Articles in the Open Journal System (OJS), which was opened by USU Vice Rector III Dr Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan SSi, MSi, Apt, on Thursday (8/12/2021). Training continues on August 13, 26 and 27, 2021.

The activity presented 4 resource persons, namely the Head of the TALENTA Publisher Team Prof. Dr. Eng Himsar Ambarita, ST, MT, Editor in Chief Journal of Sylva Indonesiana Dr. Apri Heri Iswanto, S.Hut., M.Si., Ainul Hizriadi, S.Kom, MSc (TALENTA Publisher Team) and Novinda Amri (USU Information System Center).The training through the zoom meeting was attended by journal managers at USU.

Prof Himsar presented material on the Strategic Plan for Journal Management at USU, while Dr.Apri explained more about Journal Management Sharing Experience.Meanwhile, Ainul and Novinda explained the editorial technical issues of publishing articles on OJS.

In his statement, USU's Vice Rector III explained that the Universitas Sumatera Utara currently has 48 journals, of which 11 are still active."For that we hold this activity so that other journals can increase, so they can pursue the Science and Technology Index (SINTA) and DOAJ (Directory of Open Access Journals) accreditation," Dr. Poppy said.

In his presentation, Prof. Himsar, among others, explained the priority work programs of USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., in the 2021-2026 period which consisted of;institutional and adaptive governance, adaptation of tri dharma tasks, infrastructure arrangement, campus digitalization, campus enterprise and cooperation.

The policies implemented in journal governance at USU refer to the 2018 Scientific Journal Accreditation Guidelines published by the Directorate General of Research and Development Strengthening.Among other things, it requires that the journals that are managed must be online-based through the Open Journal System (OJS) by having an e-ISSN.In addition, the journals that are managed become a forum for scientific publications for USU students and lecturers, as well as lecturers outside USU, both nationally and internationally by implementing the stipulated provisions.

Journal management strategies include involving daily management colleagues who can work inteamswith a high commitment to managing journal publications, increasing collaboration partners to meet the diversity of journal publications; each reviewer is given an award in the form of a review certificate after the review process is completed.Certificates issued by USU are based on data from journal managers.Also by involving colleagues/researchers from various institutions outside USU both from within and outside the country as part oftheeditorialteam.An equally important strategy is to use journal accreditation guidelines, the Scopus/DOAJ index in managing journal publications.

"USU provides a stimulus program for journal management that meets the criteria according to the USU Rector's regulations and USU guidelines at the time of publication," said Prof Himsar at the end of his presentation.

Held International Conference Management Workshop, USU Vice Rector III Hopes There will be Increased Opportunities to Improve the Quality of Publications and Joint Research

USUPublic Relations :Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) through the Bureau of Research, Community Service, and Cooperation held a Workshop on Management of a Reputable International Conference, Monday (8/16/2021).The workshop was opened by USU Vice Rector III Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan S.Si,, M.Si., Apt.

The activity which was chaired by the Chair of the USU Conference Verification Team, Dr. Onrizal, S.Hut., M.Si., PhD, presented resource persons Prof. Dr. Himsar Ambarita, ST, MT, as chairman of the Publisher Talent Team, Indra Aulia, STI, MKom, Romi Fadilah Rahmat, B Comp Sc , MSc, Ivan Jaya, SSi, MKom, moderated by Dr. Nurman Ahmad and Ikhsan Siregar, ST, M Eng.

In his remarks, USU's Vice Rector III stated that designing a reputable international conference is one of USU's efforts to disseminate research results and the ideas of lecturers.Also to develop the pedagogic competence of lecturers, especially in terms of mastery of certain materials, a lecturer needs to attend conferences both nationally and internationally.Conferences held with certain themes can be a place for academics to exchange information related to current scientific developments, especially international conferences.A lecturer can open his horizons regarding the development of science in various parts of the world.

“The benefits obtained by participating in international conferencesincludegetting international publications, having wider insight and increasing relationships as well as getting feedback for our research results, so that the level of objectivity increases.In addition, by participating in conferences outside, we also hope to be able to do it in our respective institutions, namely in the faculties," the USU Vice Rector III said.

Therefore, he continued, a strategy is needed to fulfill the requirements of a reputable international conference, select and arrange a strategy for bidding with reputable international proceedings/journal publishers, manage USU's OCS and everything related to it."Hopefully, with this workshop, we can jointly increase opportunities to improve the quality of publications, increase joint research and collaboration between lecturers and researchers and lecturers," he hoped.

During the session material exposure Prof Himsar amongothersdiscussed how to design an international conference repute, concerning the requirements of an international conference reputable and strategy compliance with the requirements of international conferences repute, cooperation between institutions / associations of science or profession, scientific committee, the editorial board of the proceedings as well as the diversity of national origin lead author of the paper/presenters.

In the second presentation, the discussion about increasing TALENTA Journal credit through reputable international conferences with the main topic of discussion about the role of reviewers in directing the citation of TALENTA Journal articles and the role oftheconference publicationteamin citing TALENTA Journal articles, as well as citation collaboration with ITS.

The third material discusses the selection and strategy of bidding with reputable international proceedings/journal publishers which includes the issue of selecting reputable international proceedings/journal publishers and bidding strategies with reputable international proceedings/journal publishers.His presentation was delivered by Romi Fadilah Rahmat, B Comp Sc, MSc.

The fourth material discusses the management of OCS for reputable international conferences which discusses the introduction of USU's OCS, registration of reviewers at OCS for each reputable international conference, assignment of reviewers, implementation of reviews by reviewers through OCS and submission of paper status decisions to authors.(RJ/©ULC)

Author: Renny Julia Harahap - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - PR

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara