MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU's Faculty Of Agriculture's Teaching Farm Closed House
USU's Faculty of Agriculture's Teaching Farm Closed House
Published At
07 July 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU's Faculty of Agriculture's Teaching Farm Closed House
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 07 July 2023

The university must change, in addition to teaching plus a collaborative activity that produces added value for students and society directly," said Prof. Mury

USU PR - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) and PT Charoen Pokphand Indonesia, Tbk (PT CPI), inaugurated the Teaching Farm Closed House. This activity was held at the USU Faculty of Agriculture Closed House on Tuesday (27/06/2023).

Teaching Farm Closed House is a grant from PT CPI for the Faculty of Agriculture. This teaching farm will later be used as a laboratory for lecturers and students to develop valuable innovations in animal husbandry. The inauguration of the closed house is a continuation of cooperation from the signing of a memorandum of understanding that was carried out previously.

In his remarks, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos, M.Si., Rector of USU, said universities have two social and entrepreneurial tasks. As an entrepreneur, the university must change, in addition to teaching also added with collaborative activities.

"Universities have to change, in addition to teaching plus a collaborative activity that produces added value for students and society directly," said Prof. Muryanto.

The USU Rector added that the Teaching Farm Closed House is related to the Faculty of Agriculture, a new innovative technology students can utilize for learning.

"New technology that students can learn. This form of animal husbandry innovation has many benefits, apart from, for example, learning. In addition, to know the development of these sciences," he continued.

In his remarks, the Dean of the USU Faculty of Agriculture, Dr. Ir. Tavi Supriana, MS, said this closed house would be handy.

"For students, it is a place for academic education, research, and small-scale business. With the intentions that we have expressed, it can be useful for all of us," said Ir. Tavi.

President Director of PT Charoen Pokphand Indonesia, Dr. (HC) Tjiu Thomas Effendy, S.E., MBA, said that this closed-house grant is a medium for learning and research so that graduates can work in the field.

"First, it is a teaching and learning medium for students so that graduates will become animal. husbandry graduates who understand working in the field. Second, for research facilities," explained the President of PT CPI.

The President Director of PT CPI also explained that there are many programs carried out by PT Charoen Pokphand itself, one of which is Charoen Pokphand Best Student Appreciation (CPBSA). The program focuses on scholarships for students, who will then visit industrial exhibitions in the livestock sector.

"After completion, it will be around March every year. There will be an international livestock industry exhibition so that we will randomize the children together, and the exhibition will generally be held abroad," he continued—the Regional Secretary of the Medan City Government, Ir. Wiriya Alrahman, M.M., thanked USU for working with Charoen Pokphand through the inauguration of this close house teaching farm.

"So we from the Medan City Government really welcome this because this is a laboratory. How to develop chicken farming properly, because this is a laboratory, maybe later a much better research will be produced," explained Ir. Wiriya.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang, Muhammad Andriansyah - Humas

News
Education
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara