MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Vocational Education
Diploma Program In Informatics Engineering
Diploma Program
Informatics Engineering
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Diploma Program in Informatics Engineering at Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) was established in 2001 and has become a leading program in vocational education in informatics engineering.

With the support of the best lecturers with high integrity and national teaching certification, the program offers three primary competencies: database manager, application developer, and network engineer. The alumni of the Diploma Program in Informatics Engineering at USU have spread throughout Indonesia and pursued careers as intermediate experts in various IT job fields, such as programmers, web designers and developers, computer and network technicians, entrepreneurs, staff, civil servants, and even government office officials.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

vokasi@usu.ac.id

Diploma Program in Informatics Engineering

Accredited Baik Sekali

059/SK/LAM-INFOKOM/Ak/D3/XII/2022

Vision of Diploma Program in Informatics Engineering

To be superior and professional (Associate Expert), have work expertise and work behavior, and be able to play an active role in nation-building in the field of application and development of Informatics Engineering, both in organizing teaching, research, and community service in 2020

Mission of Diploma Program in Informatics Engineering

Qualified Education

Organizing quality education through ISO 9001: 2008 integrated quality management to produce superior and professional Informatics Engineering graduates.

Inovation and Creativity

Providing lectures with a conducive academic atmosphere and encouraging student innovation and creativity to develop innovative science and technology.

Research

Organizing research oriented towards the development of Informatics Engineering that positively contributes to society and the state in nation-building.

Collaboration

Establish cooperation with institutions at home and abroad to benefit education, work practice, and curriculum adaptation.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Automata Theory and Language

Software Engineering

Systems Programming

Digital Systems

Intelligent Systems

Computer Networking

Data Science and Analytics

Numerical Analysis

Algorithm Design and Analysis

Contact Us
Diploma Program in Informatics Engineering
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jalan Bioteknologi No.2 Kampus USU Medan 20155

(061)-8220605

vokasi@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara