MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Prepares Commercialization Of Innovation Products
USU Prepares Commercialization of Innovation Products
Published At
30 September 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Prepares Commercialization of Innovation Products
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 30 September 2022

The Rector of USU in his remarks said that the collaboration program with this company aims to optimize the principle of mutually beneficial partnerships, improve the quality of human resources and develop superior academic programs through optimizing the use of technology and digital tools.

HUMAS USU – Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) cooperates with PT Nawa Sena Digital. This is stated in a memorandum of understanding signed by USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin S.Sos., M.Si with PT. Digital Sena in the Audience Room of the USU Rector's Bureau on Wednesday, (09/28/2022). This collaboration is part of the preparation for the commercialization of innovative products produced by USU's academic community.

The USU Rector, in his remarks, said that the collaboration program with this company aims to optimize the principle of mutually beneficial partnerships, improve the quality of human resources and develop superior academic programs through optimizing the use of technology and digital tools.

The Rector hopes that, with the signing of this memorandum of understanding, the relationship that exists between the Universitas Sumatera Utara and PT Nawa Sena Digital, in the future can be closer and able to make positive contributions that benefit both parties.

This collaboration is also expected to further expand the opportunities and opportunities for USU students and graduates to increase their capacity and skills, in line with existing progress and changes.

Head of the USU Innovation Research Development Agency, Buchari, ST, M.Kes., said that this collaboration was held to commercialize innovative products from the products of Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises (UMKM) USU Campus.

“We really welcome it, because that is our target for commercialization of innovative products and commercialization of our MSME products, and also including student entrepreneurship products, that is our target for commercialization. That is the main task of USU's innovation research development agency." he explained.

He also added that the current cooperation program with PT. Nawa Sena is preparing a website to conduct procurement shopping and preparing various MSMEs from innovative products that will enter the procurement sector.

Aronawa's Co-Founder & CCO, Dennis Kumara, was very happy and expressed his gratitude to the university for being able to accept the collaboration program with PT Sena Digital.

In addition, he also said that this program would be in line with the many government programs that currently continue to encourage MSMEs to develop into going digital.

Dennis Kumara added that the creation of this website or campus marketplace is also a solution for MSMEs as well as internal universities. And it can also make the ecosystem within the university better, and of course help the economy of MSMEs.

This is also in line with the government's program which also has to contribute every budget to MSMEs, even now it has targeted 40 percent of the budget to MSMEs, this is one of the solutions from USU to be able to share and collaborate with Bhinneka and Aronawa. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
SDGs
SDGs 1
Innovation
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara