MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Inaugurates Six New Professors, Encourages Collaboration And Academic Innovation
USU Inaugurates Six New Professors, Encourages Collaboration and Academic Innovation
Published At
18 February 2025
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Inaugurates Six New Professors, Encourages Collaboration and Academic Innovation
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 18 February 2025

“The biggest challenge for an academic is not only achieving this position but also maintaining consistency in teaching, research, and disseminating knowledge for advancing civilization,” said Prof. Muryanto.

 

Public Relations USU—Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) once again inaugurated six permanent professors in an academic ceremony on Monday (17/02/2025) at the USU Student Center. This event is an important moment for the world of higher education, especially in the USU environment, as it recognizes academic contributions.

 

On this occasion, six academics from various faculties officially held the title of Professor, namely Prof. Dr. Dra. Mahriyuni, M.Hum and Prof. Dr. Dwi Widayati, M.Hum from the Faculty of Cultural Sciences; Prof. Dr. dr. Bintang Yinke Magdalena Sinaga, M.Ked (Paru), Sp. P(K), Prof. Dr. dr. Julandi Harahap, MA, FISPH, FISCM, M.Kal, and Prof. Dr. dr. Kamal Basri Siregar, M.Ked (Surg), Sp.B Subsp.Onk(K) FICS, M.H.Kes from Faculty of Medicine; and Prof. Dr. Drs. Open Darnius Sembiring, M.Sc from Faculty of Vocational Studies.

 

USU Rector, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., emphasized that this inauguration is part of USU's long journey to building a stronger academic ecosystem. He revealed that since 2024, USU has inaugurated 52 professors, with an additional 18 new professors from January to February 2025.

 

“The biggest challenge for an academic is not only achieving this position but also maintaining consistency in teaching, research, and disseminating knowledge for advancing civilization,” said Prof. Muryanto.

 

In addition, the USU Rector also emphasized that professors' roles are not limited to the classroom but also include providing broader insights for the community. Science must continue to develop and be able to answer the challenges of the times, so academics must continue to collaborate and open themselves to experiences outside the campus, both in the world of government and industry.

 

“Becoming a Professor is not an individual achievement but the result of close collaboration with many parties,” said Prof. Muryanto.

 

One of the inaugurated professors, Prof. Dr. Dra. Mahriyuni, M. Hum, stated that this inauguration motivated her and other academics to continue contributing to knowledge development. She emphasized the importance of the global community understanding the credibility of the Indonesian nation through scientific research and publications.

 

“I hope we all continue to be enthusiastic about working and writing scientific articles locally, nationally, and globally. That way, we can show Indonesia's academic excellence in the eyes of the world,” said Prof. Mahriyuni.

 

Meanwhile, Prof. Dr. Dwi Widayati, M.Hum, highlighted the importance of research in linguistics to overcome language extinction. She explained that international conferences are an important means to understand and maintain the diversity of languages in Indonesia.

 

“I hope that this study can help keep the richness of Indonesian and regional languages alive,” Prof. Dwi hoped.

 

This inauguration is not just a ceremony but also a symbol of the great responsibility of academics to continue contributing to the world of education and research. With the increasing number of professors, USU further strengthens its position as a superior and highly competitive university at the national and international levels.

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara