MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
339 USU PMM Batch 4 Outbound Students Officially Departed
339 USU PMM Batch 4 Outbound Students Officially Departed
Published At
26 January 2024
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
339 USU PMM Batch 4 Outbound Students Officially Departed
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 26 January 2024

“You will become ambassadors of the university, bringing and sharing the good name and excellence of the Universitas Sumatera Utara to various parts of Indonesia," said Prof. Muryanto.

USU PR - The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held the Departure of Outbound Students of the Independent Student Exchange (PMM) Batch 4 USU Even Semester Academic Year. 2023/2024. It took place at the USU Student Center, on Thursday (01/25/2024).

A total of 339 USU outbound students will study for one semester at 52 recipient universities throughout Indonesia. Most were accepted at Padjajaran University for 67 USU students, Airlangga University for 41 students, and Gadjah Mada University for 29 students.

This activity is a valuable moment that will remind students of the importance of gaining diverse academic experiences and valuable cultural exchanges, especially for the intellectual, social, and personality development of younger students.

In his remarks, USU Rector Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si advised that this achievement is a new academic journey for outbound students in various universities outside USU and will further hone knowledge, skills, and insights. It is also an opportunity to explore cultures, expand social networks, and pursue new knowledge.

“You will become university ambassadors, bringing and sharing the good name and excellence of the Universitas Sumatera Utara to various parts of Indonesia,” said Prof. Muryanto.

This outbound program aims to improve the national insight, integrity, and capability of the students as part of the people who love their homeland. Therefore, the USU Rector hopes that the students can develop their character as soft skills, the ability to collaborate and adapt in socializing in multicultural Indonesian society.

“Enjoy a journey full of meaning and impressions. Always keep the good name of USU through character and values when interacting with new people later,” said Prof. Muryanto.Director of the USU Directorate of Education Development Dr. Muhammad Anggia Muchtar S.T., MM.IT. stated that the USU PMM Outbound Batch 4 participants met the quota and target that had been prepared. It was previously thought that the enthusiasm of the participants would decrease in this PMM 4 because the participants were 6th and 8th-semester students who would focus on the final project.

“Alhamdulillah, everything went smoothly, and communication with stakeholders was good. The only obstacle is the readiness of the facilities because PMM in the odd semester was not completed. But preparations have started again for PMM 4 this even semester,” said Dr. Anggia.

Mahatir Muhammad S. Farm., M. Si., Apt. as PIC PMM USU hopes that in the future, participants for inbound or outbound will increase more, which will support the university's Main Performance Indicators (IKU). As well as the archipelago module, it will still be divided into diversity, inspiration, reflection, and social contribution. So it is hoped that later, inbound students can get to know and learn more about the culture and diversity in North Sumatra.

“We will introduce North Sumatra by visiting Lake Toba and many more activities that will introduce our culture to students from outside North Sumatra,” Mahatir explained.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Public Relations

Interviewee: Prof. Muryanto Amin - USU Rector

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Public Relations 

News
SDGs 4
SDGs
SDGs 10
Kampus Merdeka
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara