MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Mathematics And Natural Sciences
Master's Program In Chemistry
Master Program
Chemistry
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Master's Program in Chemistry provides scientific deepening in the field of chemistry with a focus on research and development. Through a comprehensive curriculum, students will gain a deep understanding of modern chemical principles, analytical techniques, and chemical applications in various industries and scientific fields.

In addition, the program offers opportunities to engage in innovative and impactful research, both on a laboratory and industrial scale. Students will be mentored by lecturers who are experts in the field of chemistry to develop the research skills necessary to solve relevant complex problems in chemistry. Thus, graduates of this program are expected to become competent chemical scientists and contribute to the scientific advancement and chemical industry in Indonesia and internationally.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

mag-kimia@usu.ac.id

Master's Program in Chemistry

Accredited Unggul

004/SK/LAMSAMA/Akred/M/II/2023

Vision of Master's Program in Chemistry

Becoming a Study Program that has excellence in academics, research and service in chemical transformation based on regional natural resources according to the fields of excellence: materials, natural resources and agro-industry to gain global world recognition in 2030.

Mission of Master's Program in Chemistry

Focus

Carrying out the teaching and learning process of the Master of Chemical Science Program which is advanced, focused (concentrated) and scholarly in a conducive and interactive academic atmosphere.

Area of Excellence

Implementing and developing Master of Chemical Science teaching in the form of KKNI-based curriculum related to chemical transformation from natural resources and agricultural products into chemical products in accordance with superior fields: materials, natural resources and agro-industry. In addition to the above advantages, teaching development also includes inorganic chemistry, analytical chemistry, physical chemistry, biochemistry, organic chemistry and natural materials.

Road Map

Develop a research road map in accordance with the fields of excellence: materials, natural resources and agro-industry. Developed based on the expertise of human resources in the fields of chemistry: inorganic chemistry of transition metals and catalysts, organic chemistry of natural materials, organic chemistry of oleochemical product processes and food ingredients, analytical chemistry of sensor instrumentation and environmental monitoring, physical chemistry of materials and polymers, and enzyme biochemistry.

Research

Carry out research and discuss research results in the form of seminars, publications, community service and contribute to solving problems related to chemistry.

Services

Carry out community services based on chemical research in the form of counseling, socialization, and strengthening of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) packages in the fostered community.

Ethics & Morals

Carry out education towards ethics and morals in scientific research starting from the citation of references, honesty in carrying out research through supervision in mentoring. Avoiding conflicts of interest in both personal and social life.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Organic Chemistry

Inorganic Chemistry

Analytical Chemistry

Materials Chemistry

Biochemistry

Contact Us
Master's Program in Chemistry
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Bioteknologi No.1 Kampus USU, Padang Bulan, Medan Baru 20155

(061) - 8211050

mag-kimia@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara