MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Agriculture
Doctoral Program In Agricultural Science
Doctoral Program
Agricultural Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Doctoral Program in Agricultural Sciences is the highest level of education in agricultural science at the USU Faculty of Agriculture. It aims to strengthen the development of independent scientific research so that it can make a useful contribution to the repertoire of science, especially in the field of agricultural science. The USU Agricultural Science Doctoral Program was established in 2003 and is filled with experts in the field of agricultural science with national and international experience.

This program is committed to guiding graduates to become agricultural experts who are professional in developing the concepts of agronomy, plants, and agroecology and are expected to be able to carry out their responsibilities and professions as experts in agriculture. Students who have completed this study program will hold a Doctoral degree (Dr.).

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

s3ilmupertanian@usu.ac.id

Doctoral Program in Agricultural Science

Accredited Very Good

1257/SK/BAN-PT/Ak.Ppj/D/IV/2023

Vision of Doctoral Program in Agricultural Science

Becoming a Doctoral Study Program that has excellence in the field of research-based Agricultural Sciences and is able to compete in the development of agricultural science and technology in a global world order in 2020.

Mission of Doctoral Program in Agricultural Science

Accurate

Organizing educational programs and developing accurate and up-to-date studies of science and technology in agriculture.

Research

Carrying out and facilitating the implementation of research and studies in the development of accurate and up-to-date agricultural science and technology, as well as becoming a reference for expertise in national superior studies that benefit the wider community based on local potential and wisdom oriented towards reputable international publications and IPR acquisition.

Community Service

Developing community service programs based on accurate and up-to-date research results, sustainable and applicable to the community, as well as being a resource and reference for information for industrial businesses, especially but not limited to the fields of plantations, agriculture and agro-industry.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Contact Us
Doctoral Program in Agricultural Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Dr. A. Sofian No. 3, Kampus USU, Padang Bulan, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20155

(061)-8213181

s3ilmupertanian@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara