MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
M Ernesto Azguevara Ganis Siregar Top 5 In Menopause Olympic Melbourne Australia
M Ernesto Azguevara Ganis Siregar Top 5 in Menopause Olympic Melbourne Australia
Published At
28 October 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
M Ernesto Azguevara Ganis Siregar Top 5 in Menopause Olympic Melbourne Australia
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Monday, 28 October 2024

Muhammad Ernesto Azguevara Ganis Siregar, S.Ked, a student of the Faculty of Medicine, Universitas Sumatera Utara, Doctor Professional Education Program (Co-Ass), won the top 5 in the Menopause Olympic competition.

This success was achieved after eliminating 52 participants from 72 countries attending the biennial scientific meeting. The 52 participants initially had to compete with hundreds of participants to be selected through a rigorous selection from the Scientific Committee and were first determined to win the Young Scholars Bursary Awards, a scholarship funded through the IMS Endowment for Education and Research (EER).

Muhammad Ernesto Azguevara Ganis Siregar, S.Ked, a student of the Faculty of Medicine, Universitas Sumatera Utara, Doctor Professional Education Program (Co-Ass), won the top 5 in the Menopause Olympic competition. The event was organized by the International Menopause Society (IMS) at the 19th World Congress of Menopause meeting which took place in Melbourne Australia, October 19-22, 2024.

This success was achieved after eliminating 52 participants from 72 countries attending the biennial scientific meeting. The 52 participants initially had to compete with hundreds of participants to be selected through a rigorous selection by the Scientific Committee and were first designated to win Young Scholars Bursary Awards, scholarships funded through the IMS Endowment for Education and Research (EER). Hundreds of participants competed to submit their research or scientific work for selection, and were required to be less than 40 years old on the first day of the congress, be pursuing an accredited degree such as PhD, MD and Masters within the last 5 years, present their work, attend all scientific events and be interested in participating in the Menopause Olympics. The Young Scholar Bursary Awards winners receive accommodation in the form of round-trip departure tickets and lodging costs during the activity from the organizing committee.

On October 19, at 7:30 am local time, a preliminary selection of 52 people was held, resulting in 25 participants who would compete in the Olympic Menopause finals in the afternoon, at approximately 6:00 pm.

After making it to the top 25, Ernesto and the other participants lined up to sit on stage, their backs to the screen watched by all congress participants, and used an application prepared by the organizers to be installed on their cell phones. The questions could be viewed on the stage screen by the audience, while the contestants concentrated on answering each question correctly and faster, led by Professor Tim Hiillard (UK) and Professor Nicole Jaff (South Africa). After competing in the finals for 3 rounds, Ernesto Siregar finally managed to rank 5th out of all participants (the winners were named in the order determined by the top 5 best). This was a surprise for Ernesto considering that he is currently still a co-assistant and has not completed his medical professional education at the USU Faculty of Medicine, while other competitors are residents / PPDS or PhD or Masters candidates.

Ernesto Ganis Siregar is also the Head of USU Football UKM, and is always active in the annual IMT-GT competition. In addition to the Olympic Menopause competition, at the 19th World Congress Menopause-International Menopause Society scientific meeting in Melbourne, several USU Faculty of Medicine lecturers also appeared as speakers who disseminated their research results at the international level. Among them are Dr dr Cut Adeya Adella, Sp.OG Subsp.Onk (Chairperson of TKPPDS FK USU), dr Iman Helmi, Sp.OG Subsp. Obginsos (SPS Obgin FK USU), Dr dr Cut Arya Arina, Sp.N (Lecturer in Neurology FK USU), dr Anditha Sitompul, Sp.OG (USU Hospital staff). Also appearing were several Obgyn PPDS participants from the USU Faculty of Medicine who were required to make international presentations of their scientific work before the national exam to become specialists, including Dr. Akbar Nasution, Dr. Trinidia Lubis, Dr. Putri Wulandari, Dr. Atikah Harun Nasution, Dr. Afrilia Rosada Lubis and Dr. Rizqi Tanjung. Other PTNBHs that attended the scientific presentation were FK UNS Solo (two lecturers and 3 Obgyn PPDS), FK UNIBRAW Malang (one Obgyn lecturer), FK UI (one medical rehabilitation lecturer), and FK UNTAN Pontianak (one lecturer).

Secretary of the Universitas Sumatera Utara, Prof. Dr. Muhammad Fidel Ganis Siregar, M.Ked (OG), Sp.OG, Subsp.F.E.R, hopes that competitions such as the International Menopause Society can be followed by more USU students, considering that all costs are borne by the committee and will certainly add to the USU IKU achievement points.

News
SDGs
SDGs 3
SDGs 9
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara