MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Grab Assists 10 Electric Motorcycles To Create Pollution-Free USU
Grab Assists 10 Electric Motorcycles to Create Pollution-Free USU
Published At
25 January 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Grab Assists 10 Electric Motorcycles to Create Pollution-Free USU
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 25 January 2022

“In this campus we have a master plan that will divide the two areas, academic area and non-academic area. We will plan zero pollution, so vehicles are not allowed to enter the academic area," he said.

USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin said, in addition to helping mobility in the USU area, Grab's delivery of 10 electric motorbikes is also in line with the master plan which will create a pollution-free USU academic area.

“In this campus we have a master plan that will divide the two areas, academic area and non-academic area. We will plan zero pollution, so vehicles are not allowed to enter the academic area,” he said. The Rector added that after this, the use of electric motorbikes would be regulated, and a shelter for campus bicycles would soon be built. "This collaboration will strengthen USU's commitment to prevent pollution and use renewable energy," he continued.

Meanwhile, in implementing MBKM, the Rector wanted a mentor from Grab to become a practicing lecturer on campus. Practitioners from Grab can fill the class with problem based learning.

"Learning is now not only through text books, we can create mixed-method learning programs between theoretical and practical aspects," he said.

Dr. Muryanto hopes that the collaboration with Grab can make a positive contribution in dealing with changing times and developing digital talent.

On the same occasion, West Director of PT Grab Teknologi Indonesia, Zefanya Richard Aditya added that Grab together with OVO will also help digitize the payment process at USU.

"So that daily transactions on campus will apply digital payments, for example to legalize documents, transactions at the library, no longer use paper money," he said.

Not only that, Zefanya said, Grab also pays special attention to fostering digital talent on the USU campus, by opening up opportunities for 20 students to take part in the Independent Internship program with Grab.

“Leaders at Grab are committed to participating directly in fostering students. We believe that the human resources at USU in the future will make North Sumatra more advanced," he continued.

According to him, the collaboration with USU is a tangible form of the 'Grab for good' mission to distribute goodness.

"I believe that this program will contribute to each other against the pandemic and ensure that the quality of USU's human resources has a good standard," he said. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara