MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU's 70th Anniversary Logo Is Officially Launched
USU's 70th Anniversary Logo is Officially Launched
Published At
04 August 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU's 70th Anniversary Logo is Officially Launched
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 04 August 2022

USU Rector Muryanto said the theme carried was "Towards Entrepreneurial University" with the tagline of creation, innovation, and achievement. This makes USU a university that combines learning, research, and innovation programs. Entrepreneur University is expected to provide an entrepreneurial spirit from innovations owned by lecturers and students so that these innovations can be partnered with industry.

PR USU - Rector of the Unversitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Dr. Muryanto Amin S.Sos, M.Si officially launched the USU 70th Anniversary logo. The launch was held at the USU Auditorium on Thursday (7/28/2022).

USU Rector Muryanto said the theme carried was "Towards Entrepreneurial University" with the tagline of creation, innovation, and achievement. This makes USU a university that combines learning, research, and innovation programs. Entrepreneur University is expected to provide an entrepreneurial spirit from innovations owned by lecturers and students so that these innovations can be partnered with industry.

"So the university is expected to be able to provide an entrepreneurial spirit from the innovations owned by lecturers and students that can solve community problems, that is the meaning in a nutshell called entrepreneur university and then this innovation can be coupled with industry," said the Rector.

The Rector emphasized that the theme also supports USU in the assessment towards the top 500 world class university. USU continues to spur the performance of lecturers and students to publish networked innovations with foreign universities. Through the acceleration programs carried out, USU has increased its score from 5.9 to 7.2.

"The development is quite good, our score has increased from 5.9 to 7.2, so we continue to spur the performance of university lecturers and students to publish innovations in a network with universities abroad," he said.

At the age of 70 at USU, the Rector hopes to catch up and improvise things that are important to achieve hospitality for the international community at the USU campus.

"70 years is not a young age anymore, so we continue to catch up and improve what is important for us to achieve hospitality for the international community at the USU campus," said the Rector.

Chairman of the Committee for USU's 70th Anniversary, Dr. Fadly, S.E, M.Si, said that the logo of USU's 70th Anniversary contains the hope of becoming an Entrepreneur University that empowers the creations, achievements, and innovations of the entire USU academic community towards a world class university.

"We hope that the tagline will spur the spirit of change so that at the age of 70, USU will be better, in line with our hopes of becoming an international class university that is able to bring pride to Indonesia," he explained.

USU's 70th Anniversary celebration itself will be filled with a series of activities, including the launch of USU's 70th book and USU's song and video clip scheduled for August 20, then community service and EBIC which will be held from September 20 to 22, Plenary Session of USU's 70th Anniversary, followed by USU Home Coming from September 23 to 25, and ending with Festival Anniversary in October.

Dr. Fadly emphasized that in the process of making the logo for this year's anniversary, the anniversary committee also involved students from the Faculty of Economics and Business in the process of designing the logo for the 70th USU Anniversary, as a form of real collaboration from the USU academic community to make USU's 70th Anniversary a success. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara