MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Economics And Business
Undergraduate Program In Entrepreneurship
Undergraduate Program
Entrepreneurship
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Undergraduate Program in Entrepreneurship at Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) allows students to develop skills and knowledge in the field of entrepreneurship. The curriculum provides a solid foundation for designing, developing and managing a business. The goal is to produce entrepreneurs who can manage their businesses or contribute effectively to a company with a sustainable entrepreneurial foundation and social and environmental responsibility awareness.

The vision of the Undergraduate Program in Entrepreneurship is to be superior in producing young entrepreneurs who are independent based on science and have competitiveness at the regional, national and international levels. Graduates of the Undergraduate Program in Entrepreneurship have promising career opportunities. They are ready to lead their businesses and create innovative business opportunities. They are also in demand by companies that require individuals with a deep understanding of management, sustainability and adaptation in a competitive business environment. Students who complete this study program will be awarded a Bachelor of Business (S.Bns.).

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

prodikewirausahaan@usu.ac.id

Undergraduate Program in Entrepreneurship

Accredited Very Good

No. 736/DE/A.5/AR.10/IX/2023

Vision of Undergraduate Program in Entrepreneurship

To become a leading study program in producing independent young entrepreneurs based on science and competitiveness at the regional, national and international levels

Mission of Undergraduate Program in Entrepreneurship

Education

Organizing excellent, creative and innovative education and teaching based on TALENTA in the era of the Industrial Revolution 4.0 so as to create graduates with STAR character who have scientific ethics, and are able to develop entrepreneurial knowledge.

Graduate Competency

Build a platform to produce young entrepreneurs, Family Preneur, Social Preneur and Intra Preneur with character. Prepare graduates with the ability to use analytical and systematic thinking in finding solutions. Preparing graduates who have an independent, professional and dignified entrepreneurial spirit.

Cooperations

Organising collaboration and cooperation with entrepreneurs, corporations and government in the development of sustainable development.

Devotion and Research

Carrying out scientific development of entrepreneurship based on research and community service.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Entrepreneurship

Startup Business

Family Business

Social Entrepreneurship

Intrapreneurship

Contact Us
Undergraduate Program in Entrepreneurship
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jalan Prof.T.M. Hanafiah, SH Kampus USU Medan Indonesia 20155

(061) - 8218532

prodikewirausahaan@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara