MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Explores Educational Cooperation With The United States
USU Explores Educational Cooperation with the United States
Published At
12 November 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Explores Educational Cooperation with the United States
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 12 November 2021

Muryanto Amin said that the cooperation that will be established will be more focused on the field of education. Several universities in the United States are expected to collaborate with USU. As is known, the United States has various top universities in the world.

PR USU - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) continues to explore cooperation with various parties, both domestically and abroad. Recently, USU opened up opportunities for cooperation with the United States. This was discussed during the visit of the United States Consulate for Indonesia in Sumatra Region Gordon S Church to USU, Tuesday (11/9/2021).

The Rector of USU, Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., warmly and kindly welcomed the American representative in Medan. Both Muryanto and Gordon exchanged greetings and opened talks about further future cooperation between USU and the United States Government.

Muryanto Amin said that the cooperation that will be established will be more focused on the field of education. Several universities in the United States are expected to collaborate with USU. As is known, the United States has various top universities in the world.

“Mr Gordon's presence here is of course to make friendships and strengthen existing communication. In addition, we discussed opportunities to open cooperation with the United States, especially in the field of education. We hope that some universities in the United States will be able to cooperate with us in the future,” Muryanto Amin said.

As a follow-up, Muryanto Amin said USU would develop a series of programs for such cooperation. Some of them will be implemented in the near future.

"Yes, we have prepared several programs. What is certain is that we hope to visit several universities there to add insight and knowledge. In addition, we hope to carry out lecturer exchange programs, student exchanges, and joint research," he said.

The United States Consulate for Indonesia in Sumatra Region Gordon S. Church himself appreciated USU for accepting his visit. He said this was an encouragement to realize the cooperation plan between USU and the United States later.

“I surely am very grateful and appreciate the welcome of my visit. I hope that the realization of the cooperation that we discussed earlier can be realized in the near future,” Gordon said.

Previously, Church served at the US Embassy in Seoul, Korea as Head of Trade and Economic Policy then moved to the US Embassy in Jakarta as First Secretary. Subsequently joining the US Embassy Berlin, Germany as Second Secretary, and at the US Consulate Chennai, India held the position of Deputy Consulate.

Carrying the spirit of Transformation Towards the Ultimate, USU sets campus internationalization as its main strategic plan. Internationalization efforts are realized in collaboration with various universities in the world. This collaboration is expected to be able to increase the knowledge and insight of the USU academic community. (©ULC)

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara