MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Ranks 19 Best Universities In Indonesia QS AUR 2022 Version
USU Ranks 19 Best Universities in Indonesia QS AUR 2022 Version
Published At
12 November 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Ranks 19 Best Universities in Indonesia QS AUR 2022 Version
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 12 November 2021

The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is ranked 19th as the best university in Indonesia. This is based on a ranking released by Quacquarelli Symonds Asia University Rankings (QS AUR) 2022. Meanwhile, in Asia, USU is the best at 501-550 out of 687 educational institutions assessed.

USU PR - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is ranked 19th as the best university in Indonesia. This is based on a ranking released by Quacquarelli Symonds Asia University Rankings (QS AUR) 2022. Meanwhile, in Asia, USU is the best at 501-550 out of 687 educational institutions assessed.

QS AUR 2022 was first released in 2009. In this ranking, a number of methodologies are used, namely academic reputation based on a global survey of 30%, reputation of graduates based on a global survey of 20%, faculty/student ratio of 10%, research citations indexed by Scopus 10%, research networks international 10%.

Research per faculty indexed by scopus 5%, academic reputation based on global surveys 30%, graduate reputation based on global surveys 20%, faculty/student ratio 10%, research citations indexed scopus 10%, international research network 10%, research per faculty that Scopus indexed 5%, the number of staff with doctoral degrees 5%, the number of international students 2.5%, the number of international faculties 2.5%, the proportion of incoming exchange students 2.5% and the proportion of outgoing exchange students 2.5%.

The QS Asia University Rankings highlight the top universities in Asia each year. The methodology used to create the rankings is similar to that used for the QS World University Rankings.

USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin said, to strengthen the internationalization program USU carried out a mapping of university excellence.

There are five advantages of USU that can be used as capital to improve USU's ranking in the future, namely excellence in the fields of Agricultural and Biological Sciences, Business, Management, and Accounting, Environmental Science, Biochemistry, Genetics, and Molecular Biology and Earth and Planetary Sciences.

USU's excellence in this field is based on the number of citations and scientific journals that are widely referenced by other researchers. The field of Agricultural and Biological Sciences, for example, was ranked 445 in the world ranking, 133 in the Asian ranking and first in the Indonesian ranking.

“With the mapping that we do, we can focus on improving what areas are our priorities going forward. We will push it so that this advantage becomes the hallmark of USU in treading internationalization," he said.

Regarding USU achievements in QS AUR 2022, the Rector hopes that this can be a momentum to continue to improve performance, especially improvements in assessment indicators in the internationalization ranking.

"This internationalization program will become the attention of universities every year to continue to be optimized and socialized so that the target of internationalization according to USU's Strategic Plan in 2025 can be achieved," he said. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Humas - Humas

News
Achievement
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara