MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
MoU Between USU And Universitas Nias Raya Strengthens Education And Research Collaboration
MoU between USU and Universitas Nias Raya Strengthens Education and Research Collaboration
Published At
30 September 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
MoU between USU and Universitas Nias Raya Strengthens Education and Research Collaboration
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Monday, 30 September 2024

“The areas of cooperation include the implementation of education, training, assessment, research, and institutional development,” said the Rector.

USU PR - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) and Universitas Nias Raya officially signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to strengthen cooperation in education and research development. The activity took place in the Rector's Audience Room on Monday (23/09/24).

USU Rector, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos, M.Si, explained that the areas of cooperation listed in the MoU include the implementation of education, training, assessment, research, and institutional development, all of which are included in the tri dharma of higher education.

“The areas of cooperation include the implementation of education, training, assessment, research, and institutional development,” said the Rector.

Furthermore, the Rector expressed his hope that this collaboration can create a superior generation that is ready to contribute to the development and improvement of community welfare. In addition, he said that this collaboration also aims to implement the Merdeka Belajar Kampus Merdeka (MBKM) program that has been agreed upon by the two institutions.

“Especially in an effort to create a superior and ready-to-use generation, which can contribute to development efforts and improve people's welfare,” said the USU Rector.

In his interview, the Rector of Universitas Nias Raya, Dr. Martiman S. Sarumaha explained that the signing of this MoU was a follow-up to previous collaborations. In addition, he also said that this MoU was a necessity to build better communication between the two universities. He emphasized the importance of collaboration in achieving the goals of the Three Pillars of Higher Education, which include teaching, research, and community service.

“Without this MoU, we will never produce anything. That is, it will not be healthy if we walk alone, so collaboration is the most important thing,” said Martiman.

Furthermore, the Rector of Universitas Nias Raya conveyed future plans after the signing of the MoU, which included the exchange of students and lecturers, as well as the implementation of joint research to answer the challenges faced by the community.

“The first future work plan is to implement the Three Pillars of Higher Education,” said Martiman.

With the signing of this MoU, both universities hope to be more focused on developing the quality of human resources, as well as providing direct benefits to the community.

News
SDGs 4
SDGs
SDGs 17
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara