MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Prepare Vocational Schools, USU Collaborates With Polmed
Prepare Vocational Schools, USU Collaborates with Polmed
Published At
01 March 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Prepare Vocational Schools, USU Collaborates with Polmed
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 01 March 2022

“USU itself is preparing a vocational school. Hope this can be a mutually beneficial cooperation. We are very concerned that this vocational school and Polmed complement each other. We can do lecturer exchanges or use shared facilities," said the Rector of USU.

MEDAN-PR USU: Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is preparing to establish a vocational school. This vocational school will later replace the intermediate expert study program or D-III. It was stated directly by the Rector of USU tDr Muryanto Amin, S Sos, M Si, when receiving a visit from Medan State Polytechnic officials, Thursday (24/2/2022) at the Rector's Office.

In his presentation, he stated that the presence of Polmed was important for USU. Moreover, USU will establish a vocational school. Polmed, which organizes higher education based on vocational or expertise, is sustainable with USU's plan to establish a vocational school.

“USU itself is preparing a vocational school. I hope this can be mutually beneficial cooperation. We are very concerned that this vocational school and Polmed complement each other. We can do lecturer exchanges or use shared facilities," said the USU Chancellor.

A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was also signed between the two parties during the visit. The USU Chancellor referred to this signing as a momentum to increase collaboration. Polmed is one of USU's important partners, according to him.

"Later on, this MoU will be followed by an MoA with the USU vocational school. The year has been very significant preparation. This vocational school will also use the UKT tuition payment system," he said.

He also encourages the development of existing infrastructure and equipment in Polmed. According to him, it is difficult for Polmed to develop with the current situation. This is based on the location of Polmed which is surrounded by USU.

“We maximize our Polmed infrastructure for practice. We add up (addition to the floor of the building) also only how much can be built. Parks also cannot be built much, even though the provision of green open land is an important component for a university," he said.

Muryanto Amin also offered USU Kwala Bekala Campus II land so that Polmed could use it. According to him, the development of infrastructure and equipment is important that Polmed must address.

"We can offer the Kwala Bekala area. At least we hope Polmed has 20 hectares of land. Besides that, we can also look for the land for Polmed together. It must be a bit insistent and our hard work for this. We think together. In order to get a large area," he explained.

Director of Medan State Polytechnic Abdul Rahman Dalimunte SE, Ak, Msi, hopes this cooperation can benefit both parties. He mentioned that this signing was the first step to open other collaborations.

"The signing of the MoU this time hopes to have a good impact on both parties. There are many things that we can collaborate on later. In particular, we invite the role of the USU Chancellor to develop Polmed in the future," said Abdul Rahman.

In addition, he also mentioned that this MoU is a legal umbrella for cooperation in implementing the Tridarma of Higher Education. Moreover, the Ministry of Education, Culture, Research and Technology instructed Polmed to increase the Gross Enrollment Rate (APK), which is included in the Polmed Main Performance Index (IKU).

As is known, previously Polmed was part of USU. In 1999, Polmed separated from USU to become an autonomous higher education institution. Present at the meeting were Deputy Director for Cooperation of Polmed Ing Heru Pranoto ST, Public Relations of Polmed Handara Dimitri, Deputy Chancellor III of USU Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan S.Si., M.Sc., Apt, Expert Staff Siti Salmiah, drg, Sp KGA, and Head of the USU Research, PKM, and Cooperation Bureau Surya Darma, S Sos. (RR)

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: M. Andriansyah - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara