MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Public Health
Undergraduate Program In Public Health
Undergraduate Program
Public Health
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Undergraduate Program in Public Health of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) was established in 1985. At first, this program was part of the Faculty of Medicine (FK) until 1994, when the Faculty of Public Health (FKM) established its study program. Since then, the Undergraduate Program in Public Health has produced outstanding graduates in the field of public health who are spread throughout Indonesia.

The main focus of the Undergraduate Program in Public Health is to study the science and art of disease prevention, lifespan extension, and health improvement through organized efforts and the provision of information to the public, public and private organizations, communities, and individuals. Taught by experts in the field of public health with national teaching certificates and supported by an integrated curriculum, we have a deep commitment to providing our students with an interactive education and learning experience. We hope that our students can be the best in the field of public health and compete with the times both on a national and international scale. The Bachelor of Public Health degree opens opportunities for our students to pursue careers as biologists, clinical data managers, clinical research coordinators, medical researchers, medical service managers, product quality controllers, nutritionists, public health educators, and various other professions.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

s1kesmas@usu.ac.id

Undergraduate Program in Public Health

Accredited Excellent

No. 0458/LAM-PTKes/Akr/Sar/VI/2023

Vision of Undergraduate Program in Public Health

To become an Internationally Standardized Undergraduate Study Program and Develop Public Health Science in Tropical Regions.

Mission of Undergraduate Program in Public Health

Technology-Based Education

To organize education that is of quality, responsive, innovative, independent, and based on modern learning technology.

Scientific Research

To organize scientific research to develop Public Health Science in tropical regions.

Community Service

To organize community service to enhance the quality of public health in tropical regions.

Expanding Cooperation

To expand cooperation networks with national and international universities, governments, industries, professions, and organizations to support the quality of education, research, and community service.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Health Administration and Policy

Epidemiology

Population and Biostatistics

Reproductive and Family Health

Occupational Safety and Health

Public Nutrition

Environmental Health

Health Education and Behavioral Science

Contact Us
Undergraduate Program in Public Health
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Universitas No. 21, Kampus USU Medan, 20155

(061) - 8213221

s1kesmas@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara