MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Tracer Study Coaching Clinic: USU's Efforts To Increase Golden Rate Tracer Study 2025
Tracer Study Coaching Clinic: USU's Efforts to Increase Golden Rate Tracer Study 2025
Published At
03 February 2025
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Tracer Study Coaching Clinic: USU's Efforts to Increase Golden Rate Tracer Study 2025
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 03 February 2025

“We want to increase the response rate and reach the golden rate this year. Each faculty has different alumni characteristics, so the approach applied must also be adjusted,” Rahma said.

 

Public Relations USU—The Directorate of Student Achievement and Alumni Relations of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (Ditmawalumni USU) held a Tracer Study Coaching Clinic on Friday (31/01/2025) in the Prof. Suhadji Hadibroto Hall of FEB USU to improve and design more effective methods for S2 and S3 alumni and related stakeholders.

 

In her remarks, the director of Ditmawalumni USU, Rahma Yurliani, S.Psi, M.Psi, said that this activity was the first program in 2025 and a follow-up to the 2024 evaluation. According to her, the Tracer Study Coaching Clinic is a discussion forum to identify and solve various problems in managing tracer studies in each faculty.

 

“We want to increase the response rate and reach the golden rate this year. Each faculty has different alumni characteristics, so the approach applied must also be adjusted,” Rahma said.

 

One of the main focuses is designing a tracer study system for S2 and S3 alumni and a monitoring mechanism every three months to see alumni's progress, whether they have worked, continued their studies, or become entrepreneurs. Ditmawa Alumni Tracer Study Manager Dr. T. Henny Febriana Harumy, S.Kom., M.Kom., explained that the system will be implemented gradually and evaluated every quarter.

 

“We want to ensure that the data collected is accurate and can be used for curriculum development and accreditation,” she said.

 

The USU Tracer Study team will also adjust the data-filling instrument for S2 and S3 alumni to make it more relevant to academic and industry needs. Ronal, a representative of the Tracer Study team, stated that the main difference between the S1, S2, and S3 instruments lies in the focus.

 

“For S2 and S3, it is not only about tracking career sustainability but also how the data can be utilized for curriculum evaluation and development,” he explained.

 

As a follow-up step, Ditmawalumni USU will conduct regular monitoring every three months to ensure the effectiveness of this program. With a golden rate target of 80% in 2025, USU hopes that a more optimal tracer study system can positively impact university accreditation and improve the quality of graduates.

 

Various stakeholders, including the evaluation team and academics from various faculties, attended the event. Through the Tracer Study Coaching Clinic, USU is committed to continuously improving the alumni tracking system to support strategic decision-making for institutional development.

News
SDGs 4
SDGs
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara