MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Adds 5 Professors From Social Sciences & Natural Science
USU Adds 5 Professors from Social Sciences & Natural Science
Published At
28 November 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Adds 5 Professors from Social Sciences & Natural Science
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 28 November 2023

Lecturers in higher education are one of the main assets in mobilizing Indonesia's resources, measured through balanced Tri Dharma productivity, namely education, research and its output, and community service," explained Prof. Muryanto.

USU PR- Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) has inaugurated five professors in the Permanent Professor Inauguration Ceremony at the Gelanggang Mahasiswa USU on Monday (11/13/2023).

The five professors inaugurated are Prof. Dr. Rudy Sofyan, S.S., M.Hum. from the Faculty of Humanities; Prof. Ir. Hotnida Sinaga, M.Phil., Ph.D. from the Faculty of Agriculture; Prof. Dr. Apri Heri Iswanto, S.Hut., M.Si. from the Faculty of Forestry; Prof. Setiawan, S.Kp., M.NS., Ph.D. from the Faculty of Nursing; and Prof. Siti Latifah, S.Hut., M.Si., Ph.D. from the Faculty of Forestry.

In his speech, USU Rector, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si. highlighted the importance of structuring human resources in higher education to achieve the Golden Indonesia 2045. The strategic role of lecturers as the main capital in utilizing Indonesian resources is now measured globally through balanced Tri Dharma productivity.

"Lecturers in higher education are one of the main assets in mobilizing Indonesia's resources, measured through balanced Tri Dharma productivity, namely education, research and its output, and community service," explained Prof. Muryanto.

The quality of Tri Dharma services at USU depends greatly on the performance of lecturers. The addition of 47 Professors in 2023 is expected to improve Tri Dharma's performance. Continuous efforts to improve the performance of lecturers and students are expected to improve the university's international rankings.

"USU needs to maintain consistency in the continuous increase in Tri Dharma products and improve the performance of lecturers and students so that assessments from international institutions become better and are trusted by the industry," said Prof. Muryanto.

Furthermore, the Rector of USU stated that the success of the EQUITY Program at USU depends on a commitment to innovate in Tri Dharma services. The role of Professors in bringing about fundamental changes is key. With 155 active Professors and 16 newly appointed ones, the Rector is confident that significant changes will occur towards international standards.

"The EQUITY Program will emphasize the quality of lecturers and students to engage with foreign campuses and industries. As the Rector, I am very confident that USU Professors will bring about rapid changes and strengthen the education ecosystem to international standards," said Prof. Muryanto.

Meanwhile, Prof. Dr. Rudy Sofyan, S.S., M.Hum. stated that the role of Professors carries great responsibility for a deeper contribution to the field of education. Through this inauguration, he is committed to integrating societal and academic conditions.

"The responsibility is growing, and of course, there is much more to be done for education. I will try to integrate the field conditions in society with academic conditions, how research thinking can be applied to the wider community," said Prof. Rudy.

Prof. Dr. Rudy Sofyan, S.S., M.Hum. mentioned that the scarcity of experts in his field of study, namely translation, motivated him to achieve the position of Professor, which indicates that many aspects still need to be studied.

“I am driven by the lack of professors in my field of expertise. It shows that there is still much to be studied. Therefore, I am motivated to become a professor, especially in translation studies," said Prof. Rudy.

Meanwhile, Prof. Setiawan, S.Kp., M.NS., Ph.D. in his inaugural speech, "Professional Nursing Governance and the Strategic Role of Nurse Managers in Improving Service Quality and Patient Safety in Hospitals," conveyed that professional nursing governance is designed based on the assumption that nurses have the qualifications to be at the forefront of serving patients in the health world.

"Nurses are at the forefront of serving patients twenty-four hours a day; professional nursing governance is designed based on the assumption that nurses have the qualifications to assess and decide patient care needs. Also, professional nursing governance is a structure that empowers nurses to contribute collaboratively," he said.

Not only that, Setiawan also conveyed the impact of professional nursing governance designed for the implementation of nursing services in hospitals that are efficient and effective, and there are also many impacts of implementing professional nursing governance models in hospitals.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Muhammad Andriansyah - Humas

News
Education
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara