MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
34th PIMNAS - Young Scientists Have Wide Impact In Overcoming Covid-19
34th PIMNAS - Young Scientists Have Wide Impact in Overcoming Covid-19
Published At
10 November 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
34th PIMNAS - Young Scientists Have Wide Impact in Overcoming Covid-19
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 10 November 2021

“Young researchers can take up research related to Covid-19, by producing the development of health technology and international publications. This becomes a policy recommendation for the government. Because basically cooperation in handling health problems requires penta helix collaboration, in which there are five components that work together. Academics, government, civil society, businessmen, and the media have a very important role to play in creating a good health environment,” said Dr. Nana.

USU Public Relations—The 34th National Student Scientific Week (PIMNAS) 2021, which was held at the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), also featured public lectures. Acting Head of the Health Research and Development Agency of the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Indonesia (Litbangkes Kemenkes), Dr. Nana Mulyana M Kes, became a resource person at a public lecture held at the USU Auditorium Building on Friday (10/29/2021).

 

The event was opened by USU Deputy Rector I, who is also the General Chair of the USU 34th PIMNAS in 2021, Dr. Edy Ikhsan, SH, MA. In his speech, he stated that this demographic bonus must be handled wisely. “The demographic bonus can bring benefits, and it may not. We must continue to monitor and assist the quality of our youth. If managed properly, this demographic bonus can be a golden bridge toward advanced Indonesia," said Dr. Edy.

 

In her presentation, Dr. Nana mentioned that the role of young scientists in preventing and handling COVID-19 had a broad impact on the success of fighting this pandemic. The younger generation tends to have the same vision, high trust, strong cooperation, and good management support.

 

“Young researchers can take up research related to COVID-19 by producing the development of health technology and international publications. This becomes a policy recommendation for the government. Cooperation in handling health problems requires penta helix collaboration, in which five components work together. She explained that academics, government, civil society, businessmen, and the media have a significant role in creating a good health environment,” she explained.

 

According to her, if the crisis provides the best opportunity for change, the COVID-19 pandemic has dramatically changed human life habits. Various human activities must adopt health protocols. “Covid-19 has made health the number one priority. The public is more concerned and aware of the importance of health. The pandemic has made us aware of the importance of health sector resilience and opened our eyes to systemic problems that must be corrected to increase health capacity and resilience. Indonesia's current health system is poised for transformation. Because this is the right moment,” Dr. Nana said.

 

She said Indonesia still has persistent health problems. The Indonesian people's habit of living clean and healthy has not become a culture. There are still many habits of people who do not realize the importance of health. "Indonesia's health ranking needs to be taken into account together. For information, Indonesia has the second highest burden of tuberculosis in the world. In addition, there are 73% of deaths caused by non-communicable diseases, higher than in Southeast Asia, with an average of 60%. 39% of the population aged 15 years and over smoke, the highest among ASEAN countries," she said.

Indonesia needs to strengthen its ability to detect and respond to future crises. She also mentioned that information and surveillance systems are always on standby, and industrial capacity, logistics, and supply chain capacities and capabilities must be strengthened.

 

"Given the lessons learned from COVID-19 and Indonesia's disaster-prone geography, a coordination of multi-sector approach is required to improve national and regional preparedness in facing the upcoming crisis," Dr. Nana said.

Dr. Nana reminded me that the role of the younger generation in realizing an advanced Indonesia is indispensable. The younger generation can do some simple things to build a better and more qualified Indonesia.

 

“The young generation can become agents of change, which builds awareness aimed at ordinary people who lack the spirit of nationalism. The role of social control invites the younger generation to take actions motivated by clear reasons and have studies," she added.

 

In addition, the role of the younger generation can take the form of a moral force that provides an example for the surrounding environment. The younger generation can also become future leaders by creating many qualified, insightful, and nationalist leaders who can bring Indonesia in a better direction.

She said, "Students can use the campus, which is a miniature state, as a place to learn and practice positive bureaucracy through existing organizations."

 

The event was opened by USU Deputy Rector I, Dr. Edy Ikhsan, SH, MA, who is also the General Chair of the USU 34th PIMNAS in 2021. In his speech, he stated that this demographic bonus must be handled wisely.

 

“The demographic bonus can bring benefits, but it may not. We must continue to monitor and assist the quality of our youth. If managed properly, this demographic bonus can be a golden bridge towards advanced Indonesia," Dr. Edy said.

The 34th PIMNAS 2021 at USU, in addition to presenting a public lecture, also held a poster competition that the general public could see at the USU Pancasila Building. Students and lecturers at USU were present at this public lecture. The moderators in this activity were Vice Dean III of the USU Faculty of Health, Dr. Inke Nadia Diniyanti Lubis, M.Ked (Ped), Sp. A, PhD. The activity ended with the handover of souvenirs and a group photo. (©ULC)

 

 

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara