MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Ministry Of Manpower Public Lecture Job Opportunities In The
Ministry of Manpower Public Lecture Job Opportunities in the
Published At
01 November 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Ministry of Manpower Public Lecture Job Opportunities in the
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 01 November 2022

The Rector of USU said that USU will always support students entering the industrial world, one of which is by making classrooms more interactive. In addition, the USU Rector highly appreciated USU students who did internships in various industries because apart from studying, they also directly practiced working.

USU PR - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) in collaboration with the Ministry of Manpower of the Republic of Indonesia (Kemennaker RI) held a public lecture "Opportunities for New Types of Jobs in the Era of Society 5.0". The activity, which was held to support the G20 Indonesia, was held at the USU Student Center on Thursday, (10/13/2022).

In his speech, the Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara, Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si said that USU will always support students entering the industrial world, one of which is by making classrooms more interactive. In addition, the USU Rector highly appreciated USU students who did internships in various industries because apart from studying, they also directly practiced working.

"Internship is not only studying on campus, but indeed studying, working, studying, working," he said.

Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si hopes that USU students can become creative and quality human resources so they can enter the industrial world quickly.

“This is what we need to develop so that the vocation can establish a relationship with the industry. We will ask for a specific curriculum for its own curriculum in accordance with the wishes of this industry so that students graduate quickly and are recruited by the industry," he said.

Director of the Directorate of Student Achievement and Alumni Relations of USU Doli Muhammad Jafar Dalimunthe, S.E., M.Si said that students must first change their mindset and increase awareness in order to compete in the 5.0 era.

USU is also ready to create character, knowledge, and skill development programs so that students can quickly be in the world of work.

"The first is the mindset and awareness, today's students will fill 5.0 and go to 5.0, God willing, the university is ready to prepare all kinds of programs to develop character to the development of knowledge and skills of USU students to be able to enter the world of work," he said.

Secretary General of the Ministry of Manpower of the Republic of Indonesia, Prof. Drs. Anwar Sanusi, MPA, Ph.D appealed to USU students to always be prepared to face change.

With the Merdeka Learning Campus Merdeka program which has been initiated by the Ministry of Education and Culture of the Republic of Indonesia, it is well utilized as a forum for adaptation for students in adjusting to the world of work.

"The independent learning program at the independent campus is trying to adapt the term adjustment when college has begun to make adjustments to the world of work," he said. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Education
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara