MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Postgraduate School
Master's Program In Management
Master Program
Management
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Master's Program in Management is a postgraduate program focusing on management and business studies. The program aims to prepare students to become professional managers who are competent, integrated, and able to provide relevant ideas and works in the context of changes in the international environment. The program offers various concentrations, such as Finance and Banking, Digital Business, Marketing, Strategic Management, Entrepreneurship, and Human Resource Management.

This study program has a vision "To become a master study program that excels in the field of management and produces graduates who can compete in the ASEAN region in 2030". Graduates of the USU Master's Program in Management Program are expected to have a deep understanding of the latest management concepts and face global business challenges with a competitive advantage. Students who have completed this study program will hold a Master of Science (M.Si.) degree.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

mm@usu.ac.id

Master's Program in Management

Accredited Excellent

No. 14003/SK/BAN-PT/Ak-PPJ/M/XII/2021

Vision of Master's Program in Management

"Excel in developing sustainable business management knowledge globally."

Mission of Master's Program in Management

BINTANG Characters

Organizing business management education through developing BINTANG character with TALENTA excellence and human resource professionalism as an alternative to solving actual problems based on scientific, moral, and conscience studies.

Agent of Change

Producing graduates who become actors of change with scientific competence in business management, relevance, and firm competitiveness and behave in ethical scholarship.

Public Service

Carry out, develop, and improve education, research culture, and community service programs that are beneficial for changing the lives of the broader community.

Collaboration

Building collaboration to develop business management education and BINTANG character with TALENTA excellence in a sustainable manner globally.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Digital Marketing

Human Capital

Strategic Management

Business Financial

Innovation Management and Technology

Contact Us
Master's Program in Management
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Civitas Akademika, Kampus USU Padang Bulan, Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20222

(061)-8218179, (061)-8220786

mm@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara