MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
About
Transformation Towards The Ultimate
Transformation Towards the Ultimate
Transforming for Excellence in Education, Research, and Community Engagement.

Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) continues to improve in its efforts to internationalize the campus. As is known, campus internationalization is the main target launched by the USU Chancellor, Dr Muryanto Amin, S.Sos, M.Si., in the 2021-2026 period. To achieve this, he carries the tagline "Transformation Towards Ultimate".

The Rector emphasized that in the future USU must become an international standard university characterized by local excellence. This is in accordance with USU's vision, which is to become a university that has academic excellence as a barometer of scientific progress that is able to compete in the global world level. This transformation is based on three main pillars, namely:

View Rector Profile
1

Academic Excellence

USU implements the Kampus Merdeka program to provide innovative learning experiences, such as internships, research, and cross-disciplinary collaboration, to produce graduates who are adaptive and globally competitive.

2

Innovative Research

By focusing on locally and globally relevant multidisciplinary research, USU strengthens international cooperation and increases the contribution of scientific publications in the fields of health, forestry and other sciences.

3

Sustainable Community Service

USU actively develops community-based programs, such as assisted villages and the application of appropriate technology, to support sustainable development and improve welfare.

Transformation Towards the Ultimate Implementation

The Impact of Illustrated Modules in Combating Stunting on Nias

Researchers from UISU and USU developed a bilingual illustrated module that effectively raised stunting awareness among rural mothers in Nias. The module combines local language, visual storytelling, and cultural sensitivity to deliver impactful health education.

Read More

YIAK Opens Scholarship for Final Year Students at USU

In 2023, the YIAK scholarship program was implemented, and it is hoped that this year more alumni will contribute to the endowment so that more students will receive financial assistance for their education," added Rahma in her interview.

Read More

USU and Malaysian Universities Collaborate on Geopark Tourism Development Research

"One of our partner universities, Chulalongkorn University in Bangkok, Thailand, could not join us this time. However, they are expected to participate in future research activities," Prof. Agus added.

Read More

UiTM-USU International Community Service held in Hariara Samosir Village

The activity began with a visit to the Universitas Sumatera Utara and a sharing session on November 18, 2025. The session discussed various interesting issues, such as leadership knowledge, students' affairs and clubs/activities management system, high-impact programs, and long-term collaboration.

Read More

Soedjai Kartasasmita Awarded Honorary Doctorate by USU

This award is part of USU's tradition to honor individuals who have made significant contributions to society and science. Soedjai Kartasasmita is the third person to receive an honorary doctorate.

Read More

Release of USU's Batch 4 Year 2024 PMM Inbound Students

This program is a very important part of the experience for you to dare to leave your home city, and 5 months is a short time for us, and we hope this brings lessons for the exchange students currently at USU," said the USU PMM Coordinator.

Read More

Future Vision

Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is committed to becoming a world-class university that not only excels in academics and research but also has a real impact on the local and global community. With the spirit of Transformation Towards the Ultimate, USU sets a strategic vision for the future:

Becoming a Center of Academic Excellence

USU focuses on enhancing the quality of education through curriculum innovations that support multidisciplinary learning and hands-on experiences, in line with the Kampus Merdeka principles.

Digital Transformation for a Sustainable Campus

USU strengthens digital transformation through USU One Data, creating an efficient, integrated, and inclusive campus ecosystem. This step ensures transparency and sustainability in governance.

Driving Sustainable Development

Through community service programs, such as fostering model villages and applying appropriate technologies, USU aims to be a driver of change empowering local communities.

Promoting Globally Relevant Research and Innovation

USU will continue to advance research contributing to global issues such as climate change, public health, and sustainable technologies. Collaboration with national and international institutions is a key component.

Global Collaboration and Campus Internationalization

USU continues to expand its international network through partnerships with global universities and institutions, including organizing student exchange programs and cross-cultural research.

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara