MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Hosts PBNU International Conference Seminar, Director General Of Dictiristek: Islam Solutions To Global Problems
USU Hosts PBNU International Conference Seminar, Director General of Dictiristek: Islam Solutions to Global Problems
Published At
22 October 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
USU Hosts PBNU International Conference Seminar, Director General of Dictiristek: Islam Solutions to Global Problems
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Tuesday, 22 October 2024

“This is a great collaboration because we can unite worldly science with ukrawi science through this collaboration between USU and PBNU. I hope this seminar can be used as a womb for inclusive, peaceful, and just solutions,” said the Director General of Higher Education.

USU PR - The International Conference Preliminary Seminar, which took the topic “Humanitarian Islam and Global Challenges” by the Executive Board of Nadhlatul Ulama (PBNU), was successfully carried out with the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) hosting one of the series of activities of this seminar. It took place at the Digital Learning Center Building, USU, on Monday (14/10/2024) with great solemnity.

 

Director General of Diktiristek Kemendikbudristek RI, Prof. Dr. rer. nat. Abdul Haris, M.Sc., expressed his honor for the people of Higher Education (HEI) to be involved collaboratively and participatively in the PBNU initiative to increase the role of humanitarian Islam as a solution to global socio-political problems. He added that Muslims have a social responsibility and should be able to present solutions based on the values of Islamic teachings that prioritize humanity, peace, and justice when facing challenges.

 

The dynamics of world conflicts and humanitarian crises triggered by political tensions and injustice are creeping up. Through a moderate, inclusive, and humanist approach, Prof. Dr. rer. nat. Abdul Haris, M.Sc., believes that the participation of universities in da'wah in Indonesia can act as a catalyst to awaken relevant and contextual Islamic thought, which is expected to answer complex global challenges. Universities can also participate in promoting Islam as a force for peace.

 

“This is a great collaboration because we can unite worldly knowledge with heavenly knowledge through this collaboration between USU and PBNU. I hope this seminar can be used as a womb for inclusive, peaceful, and just solutions,” said the Director General of Higher Education.

 

In his remarks, USU Rector, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin S.Sos., M.Si., said the seminar which was held in series with the topic “Humanitarian Islam and Global Challenges” was the second time it was held after previously being successfully held at Universitas Sebelas Maret.

 

USU has currently established a forum for nationality and Islamic humanitarianism studies. The Rector added that this forum needs to be reproduced immediately and continue to be internalized in everyday life, especially by students who are the forerunners of the Indonesian nation's leaders. Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin S.Sos., M.Si., thanked PBNU because this activity is a form of campus service to the productivity of creative ideas so that it will advance human civilization that can be started from the campus world.

 

“We hope that there will be a lot of production of ideas and creativity for how to follow up in interpreting the religion of humanity, which should start from USU itself,” added the USU Rector.

 

The Head of Lakpesdam PBNU, K.H.UlilAbshar, invites us to join hands, not only with Muslims, but all humans who embrace different religions, in overcoming the world today is experiencing a transition of civilization that continues to change, triggering human confusion. Humanitarian Islam is a concept that is promoted as a form of responsibility that provides direction or orientation that can contribute solutions to humanity.

 

“Actually, the Islamic humanitarian concept is for all believers, who are also the grandchildren of Adam, to struggle to overcome the changing world based on religious values sourced from the traditions of each religion,” he concluded.

News
Headline
SDGs 4
SDGs
SDGs 10
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara