MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU And Namseoul University Collaboration Successfully Holds Indonesia-South Korea International Conference
USU and Namseoul University Collaboration Successfully Holds Indonesia-South Korea International Conference
Published At
18 January 2025
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU and Namseoul University Collaboration Successfully Holds Indonesia-South Korea International Conference
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Saturday, 18 January 2025

“This collaboration not only improves the competence of participants, but also builds academic synergy that can be an example in holistic community development,” said Prof. Muryanto.

Public Relations USU - As a concrete manifestation of international cooperation in the academic field, the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) and Namseoul University, South Korea, held the International Conference Indonesia and South Korea. The event was held online through the Zoom Meeting platform on Thursday (16/01/2025).

 

In his remarks, USU Rector, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., appreciated the President of Namseoul University, Mr. Yoon Seung Yong, for the partnership. He also expressed gratitude for the conference and deep appreciation to all those who contributed.

 

“This collaboration not only improves the competence of participants but also builds academic synergy that can be an example in holistic community development,” said Prof. Muryanto.

 

The conference, with the theme “Exploring Connections in Culture, Politics, Arts, Social Media, and Sports,” aims to broaden the horizons of multidimensional relations between Indonesia and South Korea. The USU Rector emphasized the importance of knowledge exchange in the context of culture, arts, politics, and social media.

 

“Relations between the two countries have grown beyond economics and diplomacy, reaching the realms of culture, arts, and sports that further strengthen connections between people,” he said.

 

The USU Rector also highlighted the Hallyu or Korean Wave, which includes music, drama, and movies, as a clear example of how South Korean culture connects the world globally. On the other hand, Indonesia's rich culture also uniquely contributes to international dialogue.

 

“This conference is a strategic platform to explore these connections and develop creative solutions to common challenges,” he added.

 

In line with that, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., mentioned art and sports as effective media to strengthen relations between countries. Cooperation in the fields of art, dance, and sports, such as soccer, opens opportunities for young people to interact with each other and share meaningful experiences. He hopes the conference will strengthen the relationship between Indonesia and South Korea and contribute positively to the global academic community.

 

“We hope that this conference will become a strategic platform to explore the potential for greater cooperation, expand collaboration networks, and produce creative solutions to common challenges,” said Prof. Muryanto.

News
SDGs
SDGs 16
SDGs 17
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara