MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Inaugurates 3,335 Graduates In Period II Academic Year 2021/2022
USU Inaugurates 3,335 Graduates in Period II Academic Year 2021/2022
Published At
16 March 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Inaugurates 3,335 Graduates in Period II Academic Year 2021/2022
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 16 March 2022

"USU will also try to improve KPI achievements every year through the innovation of the Tri Darma Higher Education program and strengthening the implementation of MBKM and student achievements," he continued.

USU PR - Rector of the
Universitas Sumatera Utrara (USU) Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., inaugurated 3,335 graduates in the Graduation in Period II Academic Year 2021/2022. This figure fulfills the current number of USU graduates with the total of 234,874 people. The graduation procession was held in a hybrid manner at the USU Auditorium, Monday (2/7/2022).

The inaugurated graduates consist of 55 people from doctoral programs, 433 masters programs, 2 masters programs and specialist doctors, 84 specialist education programs, 93 master doctor programs, 2 professional education programs, 2,380 undergraduate programs and 104 people. of the diploma program.

Rector conveyed an important message in his speech that every USU alumni should always be respected and respected by the world of work as problem solvers for the industry. First, graduates should be proud to be USU Alumni because currently USU has won international recognition, as one of the PTN-BH in Indonesia, and the best campus in Indonesia, especially in the western part of Indonesia.

"USU will also try to improve KPI achievements every year through the innovation of the Tri Darma Higher Education program and strengthening the implementation of MBKM and student achievements," he continued.

Therefore, the Rector appealed to alumni to always provide information to study programs and faculties through the Tracer Study platform. This platform helps USU record alumni progress.

"Always keep opening and filling in the usu.ac.id and tracerstudy.usu.ac.id links," said the Rector.

The next message, after graduation, is that alumni are expected to have strong motivation in the world of work because the job market is already a hypercompetitive labor market, and must continue to transform to respond to the disruptions that hit life. The way that can be done is to transform oneself through transformation to always be a tough learner and transformation from manual citizen to digital citizen.

"You have to show the skills and passion that you honed, while studying on campus, to the industrial world that requires solutions to the problems they face," he explained.

Lastly, Dr. Muryanto advised the graduates to always make friends with people from other disciplines and associate with industry. According to him, the knowledge possessed now must be continuously added, updated and modified with other sciences in order to produce ideas that are in accordance with the changes needed in the global market era.

“Be a reformer, be an innovator, be a leader. Don't be satisfied with just being a follower and a lying generation that lets time pass without work and performance," he said.

The Rector also said that currently USU has prepared a Grand design for internationalization in achieving various targets stated in the USU Long Term Plan (RJP) and Strategic Plan, as well as the Rector's Work Program for the next 5 years.

"This is a commitment that must be fulfilled and carried out with sincerity and good cooperation between the USU academic community," he said.

USU is also designing collaborative and participatory classes, blended learning, project based-learning, and flipped classrooms. As well as increasing research outputs that meet industry needs through the matching fund program available on the design shop platform.

"To achieve this goal, support from all USU alumni and the academic community, stakeholders and business partners is needed to collaborate, in increasing USU's achievements as a university that has a good reputation at the national and international level," he concluded.(©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang, Muhammad Andriansyah - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara