MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Pema Holds Indonesia Gold Conference, Presents Erick Thohir And Ganjar
USU Pema Holds Indonesia Gold Conference, Presents Erick Thohir and Ganjar
Published At
17 January 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Pema Holds Indonesia Gold Conference, Presents Erick Thohir and Ganjar
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 17 January 2022

According to Erick Thohir, if Indonesia wants to achieve economic growth in accordance with the Golden Indonesia Vision, humans must become the center of innovation with a knowledge-based economy.

USU PR - SOE Minister H. Erick Thohir, B.A., M.B.A was the keynote speaker at the Golden Indonesia Conference entitled "Grand Design Towards a Golden Indonesia 2045: Reviewing President Jokowi's Vision of Advanced Indonesia" at the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU). The conference was held by the USU Student Administration at the USU Auditorium Building, Sunday (01/09/2022).

Also present were other speakers, namely USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., and the Governor of Central Java H. Ganjar Pranowo, S.H, M.IP.

In his presentation, the Minister of SOEs said that in achieving Indonesia Gold 2045, Indonesia had to make a lot of preparations, one of which was in terms of increasing the potential of Human Resources (HR).

"One of Indonesia's challenges is to rely too much on Natural Resources (SDA)," he said.

According to Erick Thohir, if Indonesia wants to achieve economic growth in accordance with the Golden Indonesia Vision, humans must become the center of innovation with a knowledge-based economy.

"The Indonesian generation must be productive and rise up, leave the consumptive culture and lay down," he said.

He added that the Indonesian people must now have technological skills because by 2045 Indonesia will need 17.5 million professionals and entrepreneurs who can adapt and understand technology.

"The roadmap between job losses and growth must be anticipated, this is a big task for universities to prepare the generation that will play a role in 2045," he said.

In line with this, USU Rector Dr Muryanto Amin said that universities are obliged to create a superior generation that is in line with industry needs.

"Pak Erick is among the inspiring people today who will provide information about the vision of Indonesia Forward 2014, how to create human resources from universities that meet the needs of the community and industry," he explained.

According to Dr. Muryanto, the grand design has been arranged in such a way in the MBKM concept. For that, he advised students that with the MBKM concept students could explore their passion which would be their main goal after graduation.

"Put your passion, be someone who can provide solutions to the community and contribute to the progress of the nation," he said.

Meanwhile, the Governor of Central Java, Ganjar Pranowo, said that to achieve the vision of Indonesia Gold 2045, steps were needed that were carried out by all parties and designed with a roadmap.

"To achieve our goals, of course we need preparation, it is important that the roadmap towards that is pursued by all existing sectors," said Ganjar.

He said, in 2045 Indonesia will experience a demographic bonus where the productive age population will reach 64% of the total population. Therefore, the government must analyze the potential demographic bonus and design strategic policies.

"The demographic bonus will make it easier to increase Indonesia's economic growth," he concluded. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara