MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Lecturers & Staff
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Universitas Sumatera Utara is supported by a team of highly qualified and dedicated lecturers and staff who play crucial roles in education, research, and community service. Coming from various disciplines and educational backgrounds, our lecturers actively contribute to the development of knowledge and guide students to reach their maximum potential. Additionally, our administrative and teaching staff strive to create a conducive, innovative, and inclusive academic environment. With a strong commitment to improving the quality and integrity of education, Universitas Sumatera Utara is dedicated to driving progress and making a positive impact on society.

218
Professors
357
Associate Professors
628
Assistant Professors
260
Instructors
1245
Civil Servant Lecturers
301
Non-Civil Servant Lecturers
Lecturer Directory

Find out complete information about the profile and academic expertise of each lecturer at the Universitas Sumatera Utara here!

Search Lecturer Information Here
Join Universitas Sumatera Utara

Information on admission paths and schedules, as well as online registration, can be accessed through the following link.

Visit the USU Career Page

Kampus Merdeka

The MBKM program is the foundation for efforts to improve academic quality and professionalism. Lecturers as the main facilitators, encourage participants to explore various learning opportunities and develop additional skills. This program provides opportunities to continue to develop, sharpen skills, and make a better contribution in supporting the university's education and research mission.

Kuliah Kerja Nyata Tematik
Wirausaha Merdeka
Pertukaran Mahasiswa Merdeka
Magang Bersertifikat
Kampus Mengajar
Studi Independen Bersertifikat
Praktisi Mengajar
IISMA
More about MBKM

Research

Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is committed to realizing research based on the Three Pillars of Higher Education (Tri Dharma Perguruan Tinggi). In an effort to achieve meaningful research, we encourage interdisciplinary collaborations and partnerships with various institutions and industries, both national and international. The curricula and facilities we provide also support the development of our academic community and scientific knowledge, thereby making a meaningful contribution to society.

More Research

Community Service

Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) aims to realize community service based on the Three Pillars of Higher Education (Tri Dharma Perguruan Tinggi). Community service is conducted through the activities of faculties, lecturers, and students in various fields. We encourage the USU academic community to expand their horizons beyond traditional contexts and possess relevant knowledge and skills to create positive changes in society.

More Community Service

Universitas Sumatera Utara Talenta Conference

Since 2008, the Directorate of Research has organized several research groups to implement strategic research topics. These research groups were established based on the Decree of the Rector and have research topics that align with USU's strategic research topics. The research groups consist of researchers from various disciplines who have similar interests and are competent in their respective fields.

Conference
Universitas Sumatera Utara
Digilib USU
University Archives

In carrying out academic activities, having relevant and authentic references is important. Universitas Sumatera Utara produces and provides various journals and scientific articles that can be used by academic citizens as a basis for learning and research. find out more about campus references below

More References
Academic Portal
USU Repository
USU Class
SATU USU
USU Directory
USU Attendance

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara