MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Erasmus+ Program
Erasmus+ Program
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Building the Foundation for a digital future

Be part of the digital revolution by taking the leading Information Technology Study Program. Enjoy a dynamic and collaborative learning experience with an up-to-date curriculum that follows the latest developments in the IT world. Core courses such as programming, data management, cybersecurity, and artificial intelligence will equip you with the technical skills needed. Combined with an emphasis on developing soft skills such as leadership, communication, and critical thinking, our graduates are prepared to face the challenges of the digital era and become leaders in the field of Information Technology. Join our IT Study Program and seize the opportunity for a rewarding career in a reputable company or become a successful entrepreneur in the fast-growing technology sector.

Visit The Study Program Page

Advanse

ADVANSE bertujuan untuk mempromosikan modernisasi praktik pengelolaan keuangan dan strategi diversifikasi pendapatan di perguruan tinggi (PT) di tingkat regional, dengan maksud untuk memperkuat sistem pendidikan tinggi secara berkelanjutan dan memaksimalkan pengembalian sosial atas investasi dalam pendidikan tinggi di Malaysia, Indonesia dan Thailand. Dan Universitas Sumatera Utara bangga menjadi bagian dari tim Proyek ADVANSE dalam Memajukan praktik manajemen keuangan universitas di Asia Tenggara

United

United is an Engineering Knowledge Distribution Unit to Increase Student Employment Opportunities and Regional Development. The United project has been funded with support from the European Commission. This publication reflects only the views of the author. The Commission is not responsible for any use of the information contained therein.

Inspire

Inspire aim is to promote the entrepreneurial mindset and innovation in partner country higher education institutions (HEIs) by strengthening the University-Business cooperation for better employability of social entrepreneurs and for increasing their relevance for the labour market and the society.

DS-AI

Curriculum Development in Data Science and Artificial Intelligence (DS& AI) is an Erasmus + KA2 Project - Capacity Building in the field of Higher Education. The DS&AI project aims to create a new MSc programme in Data Science and Artificial Intelligence in Asia. The DS&AI project focuses on MSc’s level training, providing advanced courses and guidance in developing research skills necessary to develop innovative new data-driven technologies. DS&AI aims to generate highly-skilled Data Scientists and other relevant experts that will reinforce the regional ICT industry that is in dire need of them

INDUSTRY 4.0

Every Erasmus program or higher education capacity building program involves cooperation between Asian and European countries so that there is a transfer of experience, knowledge, and education from European countries to Asian countries, and it is also hoped that this program can continue to completion so that USU is ready to build a master's study program in electrical engineering to support the industrial sector.

Spirit

The SPIRIT project it is based on the premise that a healthy mind and a healthy body are essential for the wellbeing of the people and that the most appropriate time to start building them is at a young age. This the reason the project aims to develop academic programs and train teachers and coaches in physical education, sport science and nutrition who will join schools and clubs and put this new framework into action. SPIRIT focuses on three critical issues for Asia and for Asian Universities including Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), Institut Pertanian Bogor (IPB), dan Universitas Syah Kuala (USK). This SPIRIT project focusing in (a) academic programs in the areas of physical education, nutrition and sport science (b) programs to combat the growing chronic noncommunicable diseases (NCDs) that have emerged as a huge global health problem in low- and middle-income countries and (c) provide for social inclusion in sports for people and groups of people who are excluded because of age, gender, social status, religion beliefs, sexual preferences, physical condition and abilities.

Mobility Program

Students who take part in the international student mobility program clearly have the opportunity to expand their network of friends with students from various countries who are also participating in the student mobility program at the same university, as well as with lecturers and staff at FH Joanneum UAS. The opportunity to study abroad is an opportunity for them to be able to continue their studies abroad, especially at universities in Europe, and even the opportunity to do internships in Europe.

Announcements

Other Announcements
arrow_forward
Wednesday, 02 July 2025
Second Tender Announcement: Selection of a Cooperation Partner for the Utilization of the Former Library Canteen Building of USU
Thursday, 10 July 2025
Recruitment Selection Process for Permanent Faculty Positions at Universitas Sumatera Utara for 2025 Academic Year
Saturday, 21 June 2025
Procedures for Re-registration of New Students Admitted through SMM 2025
Tuesday, 25 March 2025
Re-Registration Procedures for SNBP 2025 New Students

Agenda

Other Agenda
arrow_forward
General Lecture - Business Intelligence
15
Nov
13:00 pm - 15:00 pm
Online via Zoom
The Advanced Machine Learning
15
Nov
09:00 am - 11:00 am
Live on Zoom Meeting and Youtube
USU Inspirasi Episode 1
20
Aug
09:00 am - 12:00 pm
Online via Zoom Meeting
Public Lecture - Digital Creative
16
Dec
09:00 am - 12:00 pm
Prof. Dr. Suhadji Hadibroto Hall
Bestari Lecture Series for the Nation MDGB PTNBH
31
Jul
09:00 am - 12:00 pm
Online via Zoom
Find out more about Erasmus+ Program at Universitas Sumatera Utara

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara