MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Prepares Hepa Filters In Student Classrooms
USU Prepares Hepa Filters in Student Classrooms
Published At
18 February 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Prepares Hepa Filters in Student Classrooms
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 18 February 2022

"We are preparing for standardization of classrooms that encourage face-to-face continuity. One of them is by providing classrooms with good air ventilation. Hepa filter is considered appropriate to help air circulation," he said.

MEDAN-PR USU: The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is preparing to standardize classrooms for students. This standardization refers to classrooms following health protocols to prevent the spread of Covid-19 transmission. This policy was taken to prepare for face-to-face meetings at USU.

This effort is realized through the collaboration between USU and PT Japan Air Filter Indonesia (JAFI) and PT Gumapu Berkat Abadi (SEVEN). These two companies work together to support class standard supporting facilities, such as the provision of rooms with hepa filters. The signing of the cooperation was carried out at the Rector's Office House on Tuesday (15/2/2022).

The Rector of USU Dr Muryanto Amin, S Sos, M Si, said that USU continues to improve students' services. This form of service is realized by providing comfortable classrooms and following health protocol standards.

"We are preparing for standardization of classrooms that encourage face-to-face continuity. One of them is by providing classrooms with good air ventilation. Hepa filter is considered appropriate to help air circulation," he said.

Closed rooms dominate USU classrooms, so providing a room with good ventilation is considered important. In addition to air circulation, good ventilation also encourages comfort during the current pandemic outbreak.

“Our rooms are mostly closed. The provision of this hepa filter encourages the creation of good air circulation. We are also taking steps to prevent the spread of Covid-19. We are also preparing so that this ventilation will also help the lighting in the classroom," he said.

Director of PT JAFI Rudi Osman said that his party had collaborated with various government agencies. He explained that his company's products were used in isolation rooms provided by the government.

“The government widely uses our products. Our product supports many isolation rooms provided by the government. We provide the hepa filter. With this collaboration, we hope to open collaborations with other universities," he said.

In addition, Rudi Osman said that the hepa filter is an effort to improve air circulation. He reminded that hepa filter is not a product to kill viruses such as Covid-19, but rather reduces the risk of transmission.

“Often misguided, so I have to say. Hepa filter is a product to support air circulation, not a product to kill the Covid-19 virus. This hepa filter will reduce the risk of transmission because it will continue to circulate air,” he explained.

Head of USU's Architect Profession Study Program, Dr. Achmad Delianur Nasution ST., MT., IAI., AA., IAP welcomes this collaboration as part of a series of architectural studio class development processes. He said that the procurement of hepa filters would provide comfort for students.

“This is a continuation of the architectural studio classroom construction process. Under the rector's direction, we will establish classrooms following the Covid-19 process. We provide a room full of hepa filters,” he concluded.

Also attending the meeting was USU's Vice-Rector III, Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan S.Si., M.Sc., Apt, expert staff in the field of cooperation drg. Siti Salmiah Sp.KGA, Dean of the Faculty of Engineering Dr. Ir. Fahmi S.T., M.Sc., IPM, head of study programs within the Faculty of Engineering, education staff, and lecturers. (RR)

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: M. Andriansyah - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara