MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Inaugurating USU Study Program Leaders, Rector: Classrooms Can No Longer Be Conventional
Inaugurating USU Study Program Leaders, Rector: Classrooms Can No Longer Be Conventional
Published At
10 November 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Inaugurating USU Study Program Leaders, Rector: Classrooms Can No Longer Be Conventional
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 10 November 2021

USU Rector Muryanto Amin reminded Heads of Departments and Heads of Study Programs to create classrooms as an active interaction between lecturers and students to produce innovations that meet performance indicators, innovation programs and scientific products that are no longer conventional.

USU PR - Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., inaugurated and took the oath of office for the Head and Secretary of the Department, the Head and Secretary of the Study Program and the Head of the USU Environmental Laboratory at the Central Administration Bureau Building, Monday (11/1/2021).

In his speech, the Rector conveyed three guidelines in the implementation of positions and emphasized that classrooms should no longer be run conventionally.

“First, we are targeting to get international accountants. Second, it is stated in the work program of the Rector for 2021-2026 what are the important targets to be achieved. Third, the Main Performance Indicators that have been signed with the Ministry of Education and Culture," the Rector said.

Not only that, the Rector also conveyed important priority programs whose success highly depended on the Head of Department, Head of Study Program and Head of Laboratory.

First is the development of the concept of Merdeka Learning Campus Merdeka (MBKM). “MBKM is a program that we will continue to develop and we must do it consistently. This MBKM program will target and reach the KPI,” explained Muryanto.

Muryanto emphasized that the MBKM program must be understood so that it can be implemented. To support its implementation, curriculum revisions to course construction and recognition need to be carried out. In addition, Muryanto reminded Heads of Departments and Heads of Study Programs to create classrooms as an active interaction between lecturers and students to produce innovations that meet performance indicators, innovation programs and scientific products that are no longer conventional.

“Lecturers must be a mentor. Mentors can guide and see students' talents so that they can create clear scientific products and solve problems in society," he continued.

Second, Heads of Departments and Heads of Study Programs are expected to encourage and facilitate student innovation to strengthen the Student Creativity Program (PKM).

"We have to produce high-performing students and more innovative products," he said.

Lastly, regarding the improvement of infrastructure, mapping of classrooms and laboratories. According to Muryanro, the laboratory is a space for lecturers and students to produce innovations and useful scientific products, so serious improvements must be made.

In carrying out the duties of the position based on the guidelines that have been described, the Rector hopes that there will be a synergy between the rectorate, faculties and study programs so as to produce better performance. "We are waiting for the results of the work from all of you so that USU can achieve its main targets," Muryanto hoped to the inaugurated officials. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara