MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU-SPIRIT Project Holds International Summer Course 2023
USU-SPIRIT Project Holds International Summer Course 2023
Published At
02 August 2023
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
USU-SPIRIT Project Holds International Summer Course 2023
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Wednesday, 02 August 2023

The Head of USU Summer Course 2023 in collaboration with SPIRIT Project, Prof Dr. dr Dina Keumala Sari, M.Gizi, Sp.GK (K) explained that the activity was attended by 12 countries, 18 universities, and 136 participants online and offline.

MEDAN-USU PR: Universitas Sumatera Utara held the International Summer Course 2023 in collaboration with the SPIRIT Project, facilitated by the Faculty of Medicine, and took place from July 24-31, 2023. This Summer Course invited 19 resource persons from Spain, Cyprus, India, Sri Lanka, Malaysia, and Mexico. In addition to USU, there were also several participants from other universities in Indonesia, such as Institut Pertanian Bogor (IPB), Universitas Negeri Medan (UNIMED), and Universitas Syah Kuala (USK).

Dean of the Faculty of Medicine, Prof. Dr. dr. Aldy Safruddin Rambe, Sp.S (K), in his presentation, revealed that after the Covid-19 Pandemic for more than three years, now developing countries, especially in Asia, are faced with the emergence of new health burden problems, apart from the burden of the two previous health problems, namely infectious diseases and non-communicable diseases. During the Covid-19 pandemic, restrictions on activities outside the home have increased sedentary lifestyles and indirectly impacted socio-economic changes in families. In addition, there has been a decrease in the number of community visits to hospitals or health centers to conduct routine examinations for non-communicable diseases, such as type-2 diabetes mellitus, hypertension, obesity, and coronary heart disease, due to the Covid-19 pandemic.

The above conditions have caused Asian countries to now face a triple burden of diseases, namely unfinished infectious diseases, a growing number of non-communicable diseases, and emerging global health conditions such as pandemics.

The Head of USU Summer Course 2023 in collaboration with SPIRIT Project, Prof Dr. dr Dina Keumala Sari, M.Gizi, Sp.GK (K) explained that the activity was attended by 12 countries, 18 universities, and 136 participants online and offline.

This activity was fully supported by the Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara Prof.Dr.Muryanto Amin, S.Sos, M.Si. The Rector hopes that by exchanging knowledge between developing countries, it is expected to produce an understanding, analysis and formulation of physical activity and the right diet to anticipate the problem of triple burden disease.

The Universitas Sumatera Utara, together with the SPIRIT Project (Sport and Physical Education as a Vehicle for Inclusion and Recognition in India, Indonesia, and Sri Lanka) with Erasmus Plus funding, has developed curriculum, e-learning, and lifelong learning courses that focus on the development of physical activity and nutrition for the prevention of non-communicable diseases. Activities focus on understanding and analyzing physical activity, balanced nutrition, nutrigenomics in sports, and other emerging issues. The Erasmus Plus SPIRIT Project involves European and Asian countries, including Spain, Cyprus, Portugal, India, Sri Lanka, and Indonesia.

This activity aims to introduce the field of excellence of the study program to attract students outside USU, especially international students, who are expected to support USU's internationalization program. As well as increasing the number of inbound students at the Faculty of Medicine USU, implementing the cooperation that has been established between institutions, introducing areas in North Sumatra Province that have biological wealth, and introducing Indonesian culture, especially North Sumatra, to the international world.

The course consisted of lectures and practicums, which focused on increasing physical activity and proper nutrition in supporting energy needs. During the activity, the material was presented on various aspects of reducing the incidence of non-communicable diseases, especially overcoming triple-burden diseases, especially in Asia. It is hoped that this course will open wider insights into sports issues and will bring USU even better, especially in the Asian region. (RJ/Prof Dina)

This news can be found in (Waspada) online news: https://waspada.id/pendidikan/usu-summer-course-2023-membuka-wawasan-di-wilayah-asia/ 

Also in Analisa online news: https://analisadaily.com/berita/baca/2023/07/31/1044805/usu-summer-course-2023-membuka-wawasan-di-wilayah-asia/

 

Author: Renny Julia - Public Relations Staff

Interviewee: Prof. Dina Keumala - USU Lecturer

Photographer: Special - Special 

News
Erasmus
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara