MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
National Press Day, USU Organises Journalism Seminar
National Press Day, USU Organises Journalism Seminar
Published At
01 March 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
National Press Day, USU Organises Journalism Seminar
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 01 March 2023

The campus facilitates student press journalism so that students have a sense of belonging to issues around their neighbourhood and have the ability to write," explained the rector

HUMAS USU - In the series of National Press Day (HPN) commemorations, Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is trusted to host a journalism seminar entitled "Journalistic Spirit of the Student Press and Campus Intervention" at the Faculty of Social and Political Sciences USU Multi-Purpose Hall, the event was officially kicked off by USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si on Wednesday (08/02/23).

Journalism seminars are two of the 30 series of HPN celebrations mandated to USU. The material in this seminar was presented directly by the Acting Chairman of the Press Council, M. Agung Harmajaya, Chairman of the North Sumatra PWI (Persatuan Wartawan Indonesia - Indonesian Journalists Association) Farianda Putra Sinik, and Head of the Postgraduate Program of Communication Science of USU Faculty of Social and Political Sciences Dr. Iskandar Zulkarnain, M.Si.

The USU Rector responded positively to this activity, especially from an academic perspective. According to him, journalistic dialogue is helpful in improving students' writing skills, observation, and awareness of social issues.

"The campus facilitates student press journalism so that students have a sense of belonging to issues around their neighbourhood and have the ability to write," explained the rector.

In this seminar, the rector emphasised that the rectorate will not only acts as a facilitator but also encourages the student press to prioritise ethics and manners. The Rector also added that freedom of the press is important, and within it lies many things that should not be violated.

"We need to provide a lot of content to those who are active or who will be active in campus journalism. The content is related to journalistic ethics and so on," he said.

This seminar was attended by members of the student press at universities all over Medan. On this occasion, the General Director of Public Information and Communication (IKP), Usman Kansong, was also present, stating that this reporter training is important for the student press because this dialogue will generate perspectives from student press members related to the theme raised.

"This seminar will provide a greater perspective on how they will work, considering that the title is student press and campus intervention. These are ideas on how the campus press or students can also have press freedom at the national level," explained the Director General of IKP.

Usman Kansong believes that campus intervention should not only provide freedom but also guide and provide protection for the student press.

"Protecting, maintaining and caring for the freedom of press, but of course, within the law and regulations, we cannot let the freedom get out of hand. This freedom can lead to violations of the law, writing something that is not true, hoaxes, as well as hate speech. Therefore, the campus still protects the campus press," he added.

Dean of the Faculty of Social and Political Sciences, Dr Hatta Ridho S.Sos MSP, explained that press freedom must align with Pancasila's values. In the end, he hoped that this activity could encourage the making of reliable journalist candidates who are able to obtain and present information in an actual manner.

"Still, in the context of graduating young journalists, steps are needed to be taken. We hope that there will be more reliable journalist candidates who are able to get actual information and facts and act in response to information," said the Dean of the Faculty of Social and Political Sciences.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Campus Life
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara