MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Encourages Education Transformation For Golden Indonesia 2045
USU Encourages Education Transformation for Golden Indonesia 2045
Published At
18 January 2025
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Encourages Education Transformation for Golden Indonesia 2045
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Saturday, 18 January 2025

“So we have noted several things that need to be followed up, especially those related to research related to the substance of the Tridharma field or teaching,” said the Dean of the Faculty of Law.

Public Relations USU—Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) strengthened its commitment to improving the performance of the tri dharma of higher education in 2025 through a working visit by the USU Rector, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos, M.Si, to the Faculty of Law as part of the vision of the Golden Indonesia 2045. The visit occurred in the Faculty of Law Hall on Wednesday (15/01/2025). This policy emphasizes the transformation of higher education to be more inclusive and innovative.

 

USU Rector Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si explained that one of the main priorities is expanding access to quality education for underprivileged students and disadvantaged, frontier, and outermost (3T) areas. In addition, USU adopts digital learning innovations based on artificial intelligence (AI) to increase the effectiveness and flexibility of the learning process.

 

In human resource development, USU targets increasing the number of lecturers with doctoral degrees and internationally certified educators. Infrastructure support is also strengthened through the construction of an international-standard Smart Classroom.

 

USU fosters research innovation by fostering a scientific culture based on Tropical Science, Agroindustry, Local Wisdom, Energy, Natural Resources, and Technology (TALENTA). Through downstream research results, this research will be integrated with sustainable development goals and the needs of the industrial world.

 

USU Rector Muryanto Amin stated that this transformation also involves strengthening strategic collaborations, student entrepreneurship programs, and curriculum revitalization to produce innovative graduates ready to compete in the world of work.

 

Through this discussion, the Dean of the USU Faculty of Law, Dr. Mahmul Siregar, SH, M.Hum, said that his party had prepared a work plan and budget for 2025 based on the rector's priority performance indicators (IKP).

 

“So we have noted several things that need to be followed up, especially those related to research related to the substance of the Tridharma field or teaching,” said the Dean of the Faculty of Law.

 

FH USU plans to review the Faculty Research Master Plan to ensure it is synergistic with government programs, aligning the faculty program with national policies.

 

“So that later we can do research, we will review the faculty research master plan so that it synergizes with what the government wants,” explained the Dean of FH.

 

FH USU is optimistic that it can realize all performance targets in 2025 through cooperation between the faculty, study programs, and the academic community. With this step, FH USU is determined to continue contributing to improving the quality of education and research at the national and international levels.

 

“We hope that by 2025 we can achieve all the performance targets and the IKP priority performance indicators that have been set can be achieved,” said the Dean of FH.

News
SDGs 4
SDGs
SDGs 8
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara