MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Officially Opens Registration For Members Of The Board Of Trustees Of Community Representatives For The 2025-2030 Period
USU Officially Opens Registration for Members of the Board of Trustees of Community Representatives for the 2025-2030 Period
Published At
21 March 2025
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Officially Opens Registration for Members of the Board of Trustees of Community Representatives for the 2025-2030 Period
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 21 March 2025

The opportunity opened to the general public is strengthened by Government Regulation (PP) No.16 of 2014 Article 25 concerning USU Statute, which states that the Board of Trustees is one of the important organs at USU.

Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) has officially opened registration for the general public to become members of the USU Board of Trustees (MWA) for 2025-2030. Registration is open from Monday, March 24, 2025, until Wednesday, April 9, 2025.

 

 

The Chairman of the Election Committee, Dr. Muhammad Anggia Muchtar, ST, MM conveyed the information.IT, accompanied by the Secretary of the Committee, Dr. dr. Muara Panusunan Lubis, M.Ked(OG), Sp.OG(K), as well as other committee members, namely Dr. Rulianda Purnomo Wibowo, SP, Mec, Dr. Arida Susilowati, S.Hut, M.Si and Ely Hayati Nasution, SS, M.Si, Thursday (20/3/2025).

 

 

The opportunity opened to the general public is strengthened by Government Regulation (PP) No.16 of 2014 Article 25 concerning USU Statute, which states that the Board of Trustees is one of the important organs at USU. Furthermore, Article 26 of the Government Regulation explains that the members of the USU MWA consist of the Minister, Rector, Academic Senate Representative and Community Representative, with one of the main authorities to determine decisions related to the election and dismissal of the Rector.

 

 

The selection process for candidates for members of the USU Board of Trustees for Community Representatives begins with the announcement of registration, followed by document verification, determination of candidates, the election stage, and ends with the submission of elected names to the Minister. Dr. Muhammad Anggia Muchtar further explained that USU has three main institutional pillars that become the foundation in the management and development of the university, namely the Board of Trustees (MWA), the Academic Senate (SA), and the Executive (led by the Rector and his staff). The membership of the USU Board of Trustees (MWA) consists of a total of 21 people who represent various important elements in the university structure, which includes the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology as the government representative, the USU Rector as the university's executive leader, 8 representatives from the Academic Senate (SA) who represent academic interests, and 11 community representatives who are tasked with voicing public aspirations.

 

 

One of the public representatives is automatically appointed by the Governor of North Sumatra Province based on his position (exofficio). At the same time, the other 10 members are selected through a rigorous and transparent selection process carried out by the USU Academic Senate. The MWA, as one of the highest institutions, plays a very strategic and crucial role in determining the general policies of the university, including the direction of academic development, financial governance, and supervision of the implementation of USU's vision and mission. This election process is designed to ensure that the Board of Trustees' elected members can represent the community's interests fairly and professionally.

 

 

Complete information regarding registration files and the schedule of activities can be accessed in detail through the official website of the USU Academic Senate at https://sa.usu.ac.id/penjaringanmwa. The complete registration file can be submitted directly to the Committee Secretariat at the USU Academic Senate Office, Jalan Universitas No. 36, USU Padang Bulan Campus, Medan, no later than Wednesday, April 9, 2025, at 16.00 WIB or sent online to the email address: senat.akademik@usu.ac.id no later than Wednesday, April 9, 2025, at 23.59 WIB. 

News
SDGs
SDGs 16
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara