MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Routine Morning Call, USU’s Vice Rector V Delivers A Message Of Enthusiasm During The Covid-19 Pandemic
Routine Morning Call, USU’s Vice Rector V Delivers a Message of Enthusiasm during the Covid-19 Pandemic
Published At
14 September 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Routine Morning Call, USU’s Vice Rector V Delivers a Message of Enthusiasm during the Covid-19 Pandemic
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 14 September 2021

USU PUBLIC RELATIONS – MEDAN: Vice Rector V of the Universitas Sumatera Utara, Ir. Luhut Sihombing, MP, acted as the supervisor for the Routine Morning Call (known as Apel Pagi) which was held in the courtyard of the USU Administration Bureau on Monday (9/8/2021).

In front of the USU Vice Rector, the Rector’s Expert Staff, and also the participants of the Apel Pagi, he conveyed a message of enthusiasm and do not give up in the face of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Today let me bring to all of us a message of encouragement. Considering what we are experiencing and witnessing around the world, regarding the Covid-19 pandemic. Many of us, lecturers, teaching staff, students, parents express deep concerns about survival and the educational process,” Luhut said.

He emphasized that the entire academic community should not despair and lose enthusiasm in living the day. The Covid-19 pandemic has certainly changes lives completely, but that doesn’t mean there is no hope.

“We should never feel worried and create a sense of pessimism about the sustainability of life during the Covid-19 pandemic, especially in the world of higher education, or even be afraid as if the world in which we grew up is no longer give hope,” he stressed it.

Vice Rector V further reminded every human being to believe in the power of God in his life. He mentions that the life we live today is a path that God has determined for us to go through.

“God created us all, just right to live in this time. It’s not a coincidence or an accident that we live in a world right at the time of this cruel Covid-19 Pandemic. Therefore, we should never teach our children, our friends, students to be afraid and hopeless, with this situation but we hope that we, students can do something positive to have an impact, we educate and raise them to be able to know what their strength, we teach them to walk, in faith, love and know that Allah, God Almighty, is in control of our lives,” he said.

He gave an example of how Moses and Job also experienced severe trials and tests from God. The ordeal is solely to strengthen them in life. Their figure can be used as an example for the academic community in life.

“He knows and knows Moses, can handle Pharaoh. He knew that Prophet Job could handle a very heavy test. Students, Children can overcome anything, because Allah is with them. He also knows that students can overcome any challenges they face in their lives, because God created them specifically for this moment. Let’s not be afraid and despair, but instead, we feel honored that God has chosen us to be lecturers, education staff, students and parents for a generation that is facing the biggest challenges in our lives today,” said Luhut.

In closing his mandate, he reaffirmed that all USU academics should continue to trust in God, presenting God in themselves so that they remain enthusiastic and never give up in life

“I know it’s hard to imagine all this happening to our students, our children, and we want to protect them from anything that could hurt them. But remember, they were born for a time like this. God is with us, and God is in control. May God give us health and strength to grow and be able to get through the Covid-19 pandemic,” he concluded.(RR/©ULC)

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - PR

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara