MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Social Science And Political Science
Undergraduate Program In Social Welfare Science
Undergraduate Program
Social Welfare Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

First opened in 1986 and accredited A, the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Undergraduate Program in Social Welfare Science provides education and teaching on social welfare issues and efforts to manage social welfare problems around the community.

Supported by competent and insightful teaching staff, students are honed to have the ability to apply social work theories and techniques and produce creative academic writing in the field of social welfare science. Graduates of the Undergraduate Program in Social Welfare Science have broad job prospects in social welfare as social researchers, teaching staff, and social entrepreneurs in various agencies such as the Ministry of Social Affairs, social services, and community institutions.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

fisip@usu.ac.id

Undergraduate Program in Social Welfare Science

Accredited Excellent

No. 1238/SK/BAN-PT/Ak.KP/S/IV/2023

Vision of Undergraduate Program in Social Welfare Science

Becoming a Social Welfare Study Program that is superior, independent, innovative and has global partner power in the academic field in 2022

Mission of Undergraduate Program in Social Welfare Science

Lecturer Competency

Organizing education and teaching in social welfare or social work by relying on the competence of lecturers according to relevant, up-to-date, competitive, and moral materials.

Student Potential

Implementing and increasing student potential and strengthening the character and capacity of student body administrators to build and create an academic atmosphere to improve the image of the Social Welfare Study Program at the national and international levels.

Featured Research

Carrying out excellent research in the field of Social Welfare through collaborations that are published in national and international journals and oriented towards achieving IPR.

Devotion

Utilizing the results of service and intellectual products in Social Welfare for institutional development, community welfare, and the development and advancement of science and technology.

Collaboration

Build a network of collaborations with government agencies, the private sector, and non-governmental organizations to increase competitiveness.

Open Management

Implementing study program governance through an open management system and accountability to carry out reasonable, efficient, and practical work in providing excellent services (High-performance Social Welfare).

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Contact Us
Undergraduate Program in Social Welfare Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Dr. A. Sofian No. 1A Kampus USU Padang Bulan, Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20155

(+62)-618211965

fisip@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara