MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Rector Of USU Appoints FKM Functionary
Rector of USU Appoints FKM Functionary
Published At
23 May 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Rector of USU Appoints FKM Functionary
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 23 May 2022

"For approximately 8 semesters, students must complete 4 years, after becoming alumni in six months he can work. This is not an easy job to get the profile of these graduates, ”said the rector.

USU PR- Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si appointed Chairman of the Study Program (Prodi) S1 Nutrition Faculty of Public Health (FKM) USU Dr. Ir. Zulhaida Lubis, M.Kes., Secretary of S1 Nutrition Program Fitri Ardiani, SKM., MPH., And Head of Laboratory of S1 Nutrition Program Ernawati Nasution, SKM., M.Kes. The event was held at USU FKM Hall on Wednesday (27/04/2022).

The Rector conveyed some important messages to the appointed officials. First, the execution of the duties of the prodi chairman and prodi secretary is the spearhead in the process educational maintenance. Prodi is expected to produce alumni who are problem solvers for problems related to the field of science, as well as contributing to the progress of Indonesia.

According to the rector, those two things will be the profile of graduates from the S1 Nutrition Program "For approximately 8 semesters, students must complete 4 years, after becoming alumni in six months he can work. This is not an easy job to get the profile of this graduate, "he said.

Second, the rector advised that the prodi be required to be able to adjust the process learning according to the development of the times, where all work processes are already need technology. The head of the program must ask the lecturer to change the way learning, as well as understanding what the characteristics of students are.

"We must not be nostalgic in the learning process, we must be able to develop way of teaching, because the development of science is a very open resource. Character Gen

Z and the unique character of the millennial generation, we must be able to encourage them. ” he continued.

Third, in the case of the performance of duties, the rector reminds about the implementation administration. Prodi should be able to create some sort of substance for the S1 Nutrition study program, then report it regularly to the dean and rector.

"So it is necessary to look at the routine for example in three months or per semester to see development. Manage administrative data well so that when there is a demand accreditation, the ranking request, the head of the program must be ready to provide the data, " he explained.

On that occasion, the Dean of FKM USU Prof. Dr. Dra. Ida Yuslina, M.Si also hopes to study S1 Nutrition can strengthen FKM in achieving the vision and mission that is also in line with the vision and the mission of the university.

"The Rector has explained the need for nutrition in Indonesia, there are still many opportunities to occupy a job in that field. We hope FKM USU can contribute to the nutrients in question, ”he said. (ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara