MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Economics And Business
Undergraduate Program In Management
Undergraduate Program
Management
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Undergraduate Program in Management is one of the first three study programs established at the Faculty of Economics and Business (FEB), Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU).

By carrying out a curriculum deconstruction process that focuses on an outcomes-based education approach and the implementation of Merdeka Belajar Kampus Merdeka in 2021, our study program has proven to carry out continuous curriculum evaluation and updates to meet the demands and developments in management science. With a focus on Financial Management and Marketing Management, the Undergraduate Program in Management is committed to providing the best education with the support of qualified teaching staff so that students have broad career opportunities, both in management and outside the field.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

manajemen@usu.ac.id

Undergraduate Program in Management

Accredited FIBAA

-

Vision of Undergraduate Program in Management

Becoming a superior and internationally competitive study program in management and business in 2030

Mission of Undergraduate Program in Management

Education

Carrying out a quality, integrated, and dynamic management education process to increase the number and quality of graduates with superior and competitive competencies and expertise and apply Bintang values.

Research

Producing a variety of high-quality, published and disseminated research in management and business science to a wide range of stakeholders.

Community Service

Carrying out community service in management and business in a standardized, measurable and dynamic manner.

Cooperation

Realizing collaboration and cooperation with national and international institutions in developing science and technology in management and business.

Ethical

Developing students professional character and ethics.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Financial Management

Marketing Management

Human Resource Management

Contact Us
Undergraduate Program in Management
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Prof. T.M Hanafiah, SH Kampus USU Medan 20155 (Gedung Nusantara Room Lantai 2 FEB USU)

(+62) 61 8213250

manajemen@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara