MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Nursing
Faculty of Nursing
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

fkep@usu.ac.id

The Faculty of Nursing (FKep) at the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) has been carrying out its mission since 1991 to produce the best graduates in the field of nursing. The Faculty offers three educational programs, including the Undergraduate Program in Nursing, Professional Nursing, and Master's Program in Nursing, all of which are well accredited. Focusing on the study of providing services to patients to achieve optimal health, the Faculty of Nursing is managed by experienced experts in the fields of health and nursing and supported by adequate facilities and an integrated curriculum. We are determined to guide our students to become competent nurses who can collaborate with other health workers to improve the health of the Indonesian people. Graduates of the Faculty of Nursing have various career opportunities, including as health service managers in various health institutions in Indonesia.

Visit Faculty Page

Undergaduate Program in Nursing

Undergraduate Program

Nurse Profession Program

Profession Program

Master's Program in Nursing

Master Program

Vision of Faculty of Nursing

To become an educational institution that produces competitive and superior graduates with a holistic caring approach based on scientific, moral, and conscience studies at the national level and received international recognition in 2021.

Mission of Faculty of Nursing

BINTANG

Establishing domestic and foreign partnerships in the health sector with various domestic and foreign educational institutions.

Partnerships

Creating a conducive academic atmosphere and providing quality services.

Education

Organizing quality education to produce Diplomas, Nurses, and Masters in Nursing with holistic caring excellence capable of applying knowledge based on scientific, moral, and conscience studies.

Research

Developing nursing science and technology to conduct research that supports the application of holistic caring.

Service

Applying nursing science and technology to solve health problems that exist in the community through community service activities.

Contact Us
Faculty of Nursing
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Prof. T. Maas No.3, Kampus Padang Bulan, Kec. Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20155

(061) 8213318

fkep@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara