MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Vice Rector II Hopes To Fill In The Effective BKD In 2023
USU Vice Rector II Hopes to Fill in the Effective BKD in 2023
Published At
14 November 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Vice Rector II Hopes to Fill in the Effective BKD in 2023
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 14 November 2022

USU Vice Rector II (WR II) said that this activity was carried out to provide technical details for filling in the Lecturer Workload (BKD). This is important to do because it will be held next year, therefore at the end of 2022 technical guidance will be carried out, so that lecturers understand their respective BKD.

USU Public Relations - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) carried out Technical Guidance (BimTek) activities for filling in USU's Lecturer Workload (BKD). This activity lasted for two days on November 7-8, 2022 at the Grandhika Hotel.

Vice Rector II for Human Resources and Finance at USU Muhammad Arifin Nasution, S.Sos., M.SP said that this activity was carried out to provide technical details for filling in the Lecturer Workload (BKD). This is important to do because it will be held next year, therefore at the end of 2022 technical guidance will be carried out, so that lecturers understand their respective BKD.

"Actually, filling in the BKD has been planned since 2021, but it was hampered by the constraints of the Covid-19 virus, so it is only being carried out now," said USU's WR II.

USU itself has sent out invitations to the BKD assessor team, and now USU has 241 BKD assessors. "Yes, this assessor will later assess all lecturers at USU," he said.

Vice Rector II hopes that all lecturers take part in this activity well so that they can understand all the material available. "Hopefully this activity will run smoothly until it's finished," he said.

Head of the USU HR Bureau Dra. Syafnita Hanura Silalahi, MSP said that the BimTek BKD activity sparked a common perception of lecturers regarding Lecturer Workload and how the process is filled.

"My hope, as Head of HR, is that by holding the BKD perception equation, it is hoped that all lecturers will understand the contents of BKD and the assessors who evaluate lecturers will also understand it," the Head of USU HR Bureau mentioned.

Deputy Head of Information Systems Center Ainul Hizriadi, S.Kom., M.Sc added that the activity aimed at refreshing and common perceptions regarding assessor assessment through an integrity system on staffing was attended by 15 faculties at USU.

"This lecturer's workload is one of the programs that must be carried out for all lecturers at USU through an integrity system regarding staffing to determine or to refresh the assessors who will be tasked with assessing lecturers at USU regarding the lecturers' workload which will be carried out in 2018. 2023," Deputy Head of Information Systems Center explained.

PDDIKTI Integrated Resource Information System Management Team, Rizky Tito Prasetyo, S.Si, M.T.I hopes that USU lecturers and students can have better understand on the importance points of this activity before implementing the BKD report in 2023.

"From our team at the center, we hope that the lecturers, especially students here, can understand better, before in the odd semester of 2022/2023 they will actually implement the BKD report through the personnel integrity system," he said.

On the same occasion, one of the resource persons for the BKD Filling Bimtek, Prof. Dr. Hj. Aan Komariah, M.PD. said that all lecturers must report their performance at least 12 credits and a maximum of 16 credits, but it is allowed if you want to enter all of their performance into the system for lecturer certification purposes and for lecturer promotions.

"However, keep in mind that for BKD purposes only 12-16 credits are needed," she eminded.

And the assessment of BKD assessors, namely assessors who have received education and training and are declared to have passed the national exam, therefore the assessors will later be assigned the task by the state to assist or assess fellow lecturers who have the same field of study.

"BKD assessors do not only assess lecturers at USU, but also able to assess lecturers in Indonesia," she mentioned. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Management
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara