MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
The Peak Of The 60th Anniversary Of USU FKG: Growing, United And Resilient
The Peak of the 60th Anniversary of USU FKG: Growing, United and Resilient
Published At
10 November 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
The Peak of the 60th Anniversary of USU FKG: Growing, United and Resilient
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 10 November 2021

The Rector hopes that FKG can increase its innovation by collaborating with various professional partners and alumni partners. This is important to increase the credibility and capability of educational institutions, as well as to expand the network so that alumni can directly contribute to the faculty.

USU PR - Faculty of Dentistry (FKG) Universitas Sumatera Utara held the peak of the 60th Anniversary with the theme of "USU FKG Grows, Unites and Resilient". The event was broadcast through a zoom meeting and the USU FKG Youtube Channel, on Wednesday (11/03/2021).

USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., congratulated and appreciated the achievements of the USU FKG at the age of 60.

“Happy 60th Anniversary for USU FKG; at this age, of course, there are many things that need to be evaluated for the performances and achievements that have been achieved," the Rector said. He said that many things must be done to improve organizational development at the faculty level and the development of the tri dharma of higher education.

FKGs are encouraged to adapt to changes in the classroom in accordance with USU's tagline, 'Transformation Towards the Ultimate'. According to the Rector, this transformation provides a guide so that we can change ways that are no longer relevant by adjusting to the development of the industrial world.

"Classrooms must become a university practice to produce research, writing and community service that can provide solutions to community problems," explained Dr. Muryanto.

The Rector also emphasized that faculties should record their performance. All scientific management and products must be recorded in a digital system owned by universities and ministries so that they can be claimed as performance. He hopes that FKG is able to increase its innovation by collaborating with various professional partners and alumni partners. This is important to increase the credibility and capability of educational institutions, as well as to expand the network so that alumni can directly contribute to the faculty.

“FKG is expected to be able to provide new innovations for health services that cannot be found anywhere else. Create innovation programs and dental health services that are packaged interactively and attractively,” the Rector said.

USU FKG Dean Dr. Essie Octiara, drg, Sp.KGA, submitted the 2021 USU FKG annual report and FKG's achievements to date in various fields, namely academics, research and innovation. Currently FKG has 88 teaching staffs. "The number of lecturers will continue to be added every year, so that students will be covered by an adequate number of lecturers," said Dr. Essie.

USU's FKG will also improve facilities and infrastructure. Next year, it is targeted to open an integrated laboratory for the USU FKG and an integration clinic. Not only that, FKG will also open an Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery study program.

In order to achieve the target, the Dean hopes that all levels in the faculty can build cohesiveness. "USU FKG is expected to become a respected FKG in Indonesia," she concluded. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara