MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
For The Fourth Year In A Row, USU Receives An Award From KIP As An Informative Education Institution
For the Fourth Year in a Row, USU Receives an Award from KIP as an Informative Education Institution
Published At
27 December 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
For the Fourth Year in a Row, USU Receives an Award from KIP as an Informative Education Institution
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Friday, 27 December 2024

“This innovation was created to make it easier for parents to monitor the progress of their children's education. So far, parents or guardians of students do not get complete information about the process of teaching and learning activities of their students at USU. Through the One Guardian Portal, parents can also directly monitor the development of their children at USU,” said this Professor of Political Science.

USU PR - Four years in a row, the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) has successfully maintained the award from the Central Information Commission (KIP) as an educational institution with an informative predicate.

Since led by USU Rector Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., the value of the informative predicate given by KIP has also continued to increase. This year, USU again received the award with a score of 98.50 from the previous score of 96.93 in 2023. USU Rector Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos, M.Si., who received the award directly, said that the information disclosure carried out at USU is a commitment and accountability of USU to the public by opening access to information based on transparency and accountability.

“We are of course grateful for the appreciation and award from the Central Information Commission (KIP). We have won the award for four years and this year the score continues to rise. It shows that USU has a strong commitment in the implementation of information disclosure,” said Prof. Mury in his statement, Wednesday (18/12/2024).  Prof. Mury, explained that USU's information disclosure program from year to year also varies. In addition to having a clear Information and Documentation Management Officer (PPID) organizational structure, USU has also created an innovation in digitizing disclosure that can be accessed by parents or guardians of students under the name Parent Portal (One Guardian).

“This innovation was created to make it easier for parents to monitor the progress of their children's education. So far, parents or guardians of students have not received complete information about the process of teaching and learning activities of their students at USU. Through the One Guardian Portal, parents can also directly monitor the development of their children at USU,” said the Professor of Political Science.

Prof. Mury hopes that USU will continue to provide the best service for the community, especially in providing information. The award won is a motivation to continue to transform for the better.

USU Head of Public Relations, Protocol and Promotion Amalia Meutia, M.PSi, Psychologist said that the achievement for four consecutive years is clear evidence of the hard work, dedication, and solid collaboration between the Public Relations Team, related units, and all supporting components at USU.

“This achievement is inseparable from the strong commitment of the university leadership, especially the USU Rector, who always supports information disclosure and provides the best service to the academic community and the wider community,” he said.

The Head of Public Relations explained that this achievement is proof that USU is not only superior in the academic field, but also a pioneer in transparency and public accountability.

The award from KIP in 2024 fulfills the series of brilliant achievements made by USU throughout 2024. Previously, USU won four prestigious awards from the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology (Kemdiktisaintek) and in international rankings, USU's position continued to experience significant improvement.

News
SDGs 4
SDGs
SDGs 10
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara