MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Rector Of USU Receives 9 Windu Award Medal Of Competition
Rector of USU Receives 9 Windu Award Medal of Competition
Published At
16 March 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Rector of USU Receives 9 Windu Award Medal of Competition
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 16 March 2022

The Rector of USU hopes that the award will motivate the younger generation to contribute to the development of the nation. He also hopes that the younger generation will be proud to show their identity as Indonesians.

USU - PR: The Rector of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Dr Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., received the Certificate of Award and the 9th Anniversary of the Independence Medal of the Republic of Indonesia from the National Daily Council (DHN) 45. The award presentation was held on Friday (11/02). 03/2022) in Tengku Rizal Nurdin Hall, Governor's Office Complex, Medan.

The Rector of USU hopes that the award will motivate the younger generation to contribute to the nation's development. He also hopes that the younger generation will be proud to show their identity as Indonesians.

"Alhamdulillah. I really hope this award will be a motivation for the younger generation. I hope that the younger generation will feel proud as Indonesians. Hopefully, this will strengthen me personally as well to continue to contribute to the nation," said Muryanto Amin

The Governor of North Sumatra, Edy Rahmayadi, symbolically pinned the medal along with his certificate of appreciation. He said that this moment was a form of appreciation for the fighters, especially in the development of North Sumatra.

“I spoke to my seniors, my parents, who received the award today. There are still many things that I have not been able to do, which is expected by my seniors in building North Sumatra. Thank you for contributing to North Sumatra," he said.

He said that the fighters' contribution in North Sumatra was an inspiration for him in developing North Sumatra. According to him, being a governor means carrying out the hopes and continuing the predecessors' struggle.

"All the sacrifices of our predecessors for the independence of the Republic of Indonesia, we continue the struggle. I've been trying my best, putting my body and mind into it. I apologize if I haven't been able to maximize it. This is a mandate from the parents and predecessors of the previous governor's officials. I report everything to the chairman of the DPRD, as a form of responsibility," he said.

Chairman of DHN 45 Dr H Ramli Hasan Basriin his remarks read by the Chairman of DHD 45 North SumatraMuhammad Hasyim stated that North Sumatra is a province that maintains diversity and has endured for a long time and is a strength.

"We will definitely remember the birth of Supersemar. There are many versions. However, state sovereignty through war also occurred in Medan. In the Medan area war, fighters from diverse communities fought to maintain independence. All work hand in hand and help each other. This shows that North Sumatra is a province that has survived evil intentions, racial issues, and divisions," he said.

The speech also stated that DHN and its staff were making efforts to revitalize the site of the Indonesian struggle. According to him, the relic must be preserved as a memory of the struggle and also an encouragement for the younger generation.

"Central and regional DHN, especially North Sumatra, are currently actively caring for the site of the struggle. I hope the governor and mayor support this effort. We know that North Sumatra has many sites of struggle which are memories of the national struggle," he concluded.

In the event, the same award was also given to the Chairman of the North Sumatra DPRD, Drs. Baskami Ginting, Former Governor of North Sumatra Syamsul Arifin and Tengku Erry Nuradi, Mayor of Medan Bobby Afif Nasution, Regent of Batu Bara Zahir, Chancellor of UNIMED Syamsul Gultom, Chancellor of UINSU Prof. Dr. H. Syahrin Harahap, M.A, UMSU Chancellor Prof. Dr. Agussani, MAP, Former Secretary of North Sumatra Province Drs H Muhyan Tambuse, Dr. Drs. Rustam Effendy Nainggolan, M.M., H. Nurdin Lubis, S.H., M.M., Hasban Ritonga, and Ir Sabrina.

Head of North Sumatra MUI Maratua Simanjuntak, Chair of the Al-Kamal Sibolangit Center Kamaluddin Lubis, SH., Prof. Usman Pelly, Pandapotan Nasution, Indra Wahidin, JA Ferdinandus, as well as the General Leader of the Alert Daily and the General Pulpit. (RR)

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara