MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU And Menzies Collaborate On Malaria Research
USU and Menzies Collaborate on Malaria Research
Published At
09 June 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU and Menzies Collaborate on Malaria Research
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 09 June 2022

"USU welcomes this visit, where later we will all discuss further possible follow-up cooperation, especially in the health sector," said the Rector.

PR USU - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) received an audience from the Zoomal Menzies School of Health Research (Menzies) Team at a meet and greeted event which took place in the Senate Room of the USU Central Administration Building on Thursday, (02/06/2022).

The visit conducted by the Menzies Team was a follow-up to a cooperation agreement or a plan for future program synergies, especially in the health sector. It was conveyed by the Rector of USU, Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Sc.

"USU welcomes this visit, where later we will all discuss further possible follow-up cooperation, especially in the health sector," said the Rector.

The Rector also added that the collaboration between USU and the Menzies Team aims to provide wider benefits for the community and open space for the implementation of various activities that support the development of skills, knowledge, and innovation of USU graduates.

"By enabling the transfer of information, expertise, and experience from practitioners and scientists in Australia and opening up opportunities for USU students and lecturers to conduct research collaborations or more intense publications," he said.

Muryanto Amin said that there would be the possibility of developing other studies after the malaria research being jointly carried out by USU and the Menzies Team. He also mentioned that the agenda of this academic meeting would be the main agenda so that foreign researchers can conduct research with researchers from USU.

"Yes, we are currently doing joint research for malaria research, maybe there will be other research that will be developed in the days ahead," said the Rector.

On the same occasion, the representative of Menzies Team, Prof. dr. Matthew Grig, MBBS, BMedSci, DTMH, PhD stated that he and his team are delighted to work with USU. He looks forward to collaborations that will research malaria in monkeys and protect agriculture.

“It's great that all the teams can work together and have the opportunity to work together with USU. I'm really looking forward to this collaborative project, where we research malaria in monkeys, and also protect agriculture," he said.

Prof. Matthew also mentioned that he was very excited to start working together and had plans for future projects. He hopes that there will be a follow-up and some work related to this in the future.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Collaboration
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara