MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Receives Audience From Chairman Of PAN Faction
USU Receives Audience from Chairman of PAN Faction
Published At
26 October 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Receives Audience from Chairman of PAN Faction
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 26 October 2023

This idea or plan is indeed very positive. Therefore, it needs to be concretized as soon as possible. However, what is interesting is the context of providing the scholarship and ensuring that these children can return to their respective regions. In the future, we need to consider how a collaborative scheme can be built, in what form, and how the pattern with the local government, schools, universities, and ministries can be so that the admission process can be carried out more transparently and responsibly," said Dr. Edy Ikhsan, SH, MA.

USU PR - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), together with the Chairman of the PAN Faction in the Indonesian Parliament, Dr. H. Saleh Partaonan Daulay, M.Ag., M.Hum., M.A, held an audience in the Rector's Audience Room on Monday, (10/09/2023).

As a large country with a population of more than 273 million to date, the availability of doctors in all regions must be sufficient. In Indonesia, the ratio of the sufficiency of doctors in cities compared to remote areas needs to be more balanced. Therefore, this scholarship is intended for local students to balance the ratio of the need for doctors in remote areas.

Vice-Rector I, Dr. Edy Ikhsan, SH, MA, stated that this scholarship program has a positive idea, especially since its main goal is to ensure that scholarship recipients can return to contribute to their regions. Dr. Edy Ikhsan, SH, MA, also emphasized that this plan must be implemented transparently and responsibly to produce the best students.

"This idea or plan is indeed very positive. Therefore, it needs to be concretized as soon as possible. However, what is interesting is the context of providing the scholarship and ensuring that these children can return to their respective regions. In the future, we need to consider how a collaborative scheme can be built, in what form, and how the pattern with the local government, schools, universities, and ministries can be so that the admission process can be carried out more transparently and responsibly," said Dr. Edy Ikhsan, SH, MA.

The scholarship program initiated by Dr. H. Saleh Partaonan Daulay, M.Ag., M.Hum., M.A, as a USU alumnus, is a contribution and an example of an alumnus who returns and supports the development of USU. Therefore, Dr. Edy Ikhsan, S.H., M.A., hopes that more alumni will actively contribute to USU, in line with the emphasized theme of USU Back Home.

"We hope we will have more alumni like Mr. Saleh, as many successful alumni are outside. The current theme is 'back home,' return home, see the university, see where you went to school, do something better for USU, and help USU because USU will not be great without its alumni," hoped Dr. Edy Ikhsan, S.H., M.A.

Dr. H. Saleh Partaonan Daulay, M.Ag., M.Hum., M.A., revealed that it is rare for doctors to be willing to be placed in remote areas. Therefore, by providing scholarships to outstanding students from these areas, it is hoped that they will return and work in their respective regions. Dr. H. Saleh Partaonan Daulay, M.Ag., M.Hum., M.A., emphasized the importance of promptly implementing this plan. Additionally, as a member of the Indonesian Parliament representing North Sumatra and a USU alumnus, he feels obligated to advance USU and North Sumatra.

"We have remote areas where doctors are rarely willing to be placed. Therefore, one solution is to provide scholarships to smart local students. So they never feel reluctant to return to their regions. This must be implemented immediately. As a member of the Indonesian Parliament representing North Sumatra and a USU alumnus, I have an obligation to elevate USU and North Sumatra," said Dr. H. Saleh Partaonan Daulay, M.Ag., M.Hum., M.A.

Dr. H. Saleh Partaonan Daulay, M.Ag., M.Hum., M.A., mentioned the points contained in this collaboration, namely scholarships are given to undergraduate and postgraduate students of FK USU with the condition that they are willing to be placed in the specified area. Then, not only for students the scholarship also involves students from high schools who will be financed for their studies by following these conditions. Furthermore, Dr. H. Saleh Partaonan Daulay, M.Ag., M.Hum., M.A., is committed to fulfilling the equipment the USU Hospital needs.

"We will provide scholarships to students studying here if they are willing to be placed in their home region or a designated area. We also establish cooperation between high school students in North Sumatra with USU, the local government, and the Ministry of Health. As an alumnus, I feel I am responsible for the equipment at USU Hospital. Therefore, I will try to ensure that the tools needed will be available soon," explained Dr. H. Saleh Partaonan Daulay, M.Ag., M.Hum., M.A.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Scholarship
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara