MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Fun Walk Enlivened The 67th Anniversary Of FP USU
Fun Walk Enlivened the 67th Anniversary of FP USU
Published At
30 November 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Fun Walk Enlivened the 67th Anniversary of FP USU
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 30 November 2023

This theme is a message that being an agricultural entrepreneur is not a shameful business but a business that can be promising for their future," said Aman

USU PR - Faculty of Agriculture (FP) of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held a Fun Walk to enliven the 67th Anniversary, entitled "Millennial Agripreneurs for Food Security". The activity took place at the Faculty of Agriculture Field, on Saturday (11/18/2023).

The Faculty of Agriculture entrusts the alumni to be the organizers of the Anniversary, and this year the responsibility was given to the class of 93. They received the relay from batch 92 and plan to pass the relay on to batch 94 the following year. As such, about 80% of the support for this activity comes from the alumni.

Aman Hamonangan Siregar, SP, Chairman of the FP USU Anniversary Committee, explained that there was a series of events that involved participation from the academic community and students. The events were Fun Walk, music festival, and other competitions such as e-sport, best UMKM stand, and twibbon. All of these activities were decorated with prize distribution with a total budget prepared for competition prizes reaching 15 million rupiah.

"Each of these activities has a prize, and we have also prepared a lucky draw for the academic community and students. For each competition we have prepared 3 prizes," Aman explained.

Furthermore, Aman Hamonangan Siregar, SP, explained the meaning of the theme of the 67th Anniversary of the USU Faculty of Agriculture, which has a deep meaning. This theme aims to inspire and remind students to have the spirit to become entrepreneurs in agriculture. Through this theme, students are expected to see examples of success from seniors or alumni who have succeeded in the agricultural business.

"This theme is a message that being an agricultural entrepreneur is not a shameful business but a business that can be promising for their future," said Aman.

Aman Hamonangan Siregar, SP, sees that there are significant positive changes in the USU Faculty of Agriculture. The number of students has increased from around 2000 to 3000 recently. In addition, many of the faculty's buildings have been updated and augmented, showing the development and improvement of infrastructure.

"There are indeed many changes, so I feel that there are many positive changes in the USU Faculty of Agriculture," said Aman.

Samulis Samuindra, SP as an alumnus of batch 88 expressed his excitement about the opportunity to take part in enlivening the Faculty of Agriculture's anniversary. He highlighted the cohesiveness known at the USU Faculty of Agriculture, where practicum group work is always done together. So they feel a close bond among students at the USU Faculty of Agriculture.

"I am very happy to be able to join in enlivening this event because the Faculty of Agriculture is a faculty known for its cohesiveness. In the past, the practicum groups always worked together. So we feel the bond between us students.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Dies Natalis
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara