MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Holds Preparation Of Work Plan And Budget Amendment
USU Holds Preparation of Work Plan and Budget Amendment
Published At
17 May 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Holds Preparation of Work Plan and Budget Amendment
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 17 May 2023

If, for example, we are required to increase (our) Academic Reputation numbers, then we must be able to increase collaborative research projects that require journals and books that promote our institution outside of Indonesia.

USU PR - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held the arrangement of the Work Plan and Budget Amendment (RKAP) for the academic year of 2023. The material related to planning was presented directly by USU Rector Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin S.Sos at the USU Auditorium Wednesday (10/05/2023).

The RKAP planning focuses on several important issues, such as Human Resources and Finance; Research, Community Service, Laboratories, and Cooperation; Digital Planning; Assets and Businesses; and Public Information.

In his presentation, the USU Rector revealed that one of the administrative requirements for internationalization is Outcome Based Education (OBE). Problems related to forming OBE must be resolved by focusing on making guidelines for lecturers for their teaching.

" If a problem arises, the guidelines can quickly be looked at (for a solution). If lecturers are not accustomed to teaching seriously to see the accomplishments of each student and class, it will affect the making of OBE. This issue has been a problem for us until now, even though OBE is one of the administrative requirements for internationalization," said Prof. Mury.

The USU Rector also mentioned the importance of collaborative research programs to increase Academic Reputation. Journals and books will later be produced as the results of collaborative research, which can present USU to the national and international worlds.

“If, for example, we are required to increase (our) Academic Reputation numbers, then we must be able to increase collaborative research projects that require journals and books that promote our institution outside of Indonesia,” added Prof. Mury

The USU Rector is optimistic that innovations will be made related to international classes to achieve internationalization goals in the future. The implementation of international classes has been regulated in the Regulation of the Minister of Education and Culture of the Republic of Indonesia Number 14 of 2014. The quality of international classes will be equivalent to the standard classes at international universities.

"USU's breakthrough in the future is to create international class. International class describes a class that conducts its standards in accordance with international standards. The quality given in the international class will be the same as in Harvard," he added.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Education
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara