MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Is Ready To Hold Face-To-Face Lectures In January 2022
USU is Ready to Hold Face-to-Face Lectures in January 2022
Published At
01 December 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU is Ready to Hold Face-to-Face Lectures in January 2022
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 01 December 2021

"The implementation of face-to-face lectures needs to be prepared neatly, carefully and thoroughly as much detail as possible to avoid situations that we don't want, both those that will affect the formation of new pandemic clusters, or those that affect the lecture system and temporarily are planned in a hybrid way," WR I explained.

USU PR - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is preparing to conduct face-to-face lectures, said USU Vice Rector I (WR I) Dr. Edy Ikhsan, S.H., M.H at a routine morning rally, at the Central Administration Bureau, Monday (11/29/2021).

Vice Rector I said that USU has currently made various preparations for face-to-face lectures which are planned to be held in mid-January 2022.

"The implementation of face-to-face lectures requires to be prepared neatly, carefully and thoroughly as much as possible to avoid situations that we do not want, both those that will affect the formation of a new pandemic cluster, or those that affect the lecture system and are temporarily planned in a hybrid manner," explained WR I. .

In order to prepare for face-to-face lectures, USU also provides administrative services and classroom meetings that have been integrated with electronic services with ideal speed and accuracy.

"We have prepared administrative services that are integrated with electronics, so as to minimize crowds and queues," he said.

On the occasion, Dr. Edy Ikhsan added that the Merdeka Learning Campus Merdeka (MBKM) program will be implemented intensely in the coming semester and is expected to be able to create an innovative learning process as well as to support passion and talent for students.

“There are several acceleration programs that have been prepared by the student and alumni sector, including a guidebook that serves as a guide for each work unit. One of them is a guidebook for the preparation of the MBKM curriculum,” he continued.

WR I emphasized that the goal of MBKM is none other than to achieve learning outcomes that include aspects of attitudes, skills optimally so that they can be in line with the demands of the industrial world that are ready to use and professional.

“The MBKM policy will be applied intensely in the coming semester. This program is expected to be the answer to creating an innovative learning process for students, their passion and talents will be supported,” he said.

For this reason, WR I hopes that the academic community can provide good and optimal service and is expected to be able to adapt to technology so that they can work professionally. (©ULC)

Author: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: M. Andriansyah - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara