MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Mathematics And Natural Sciences
Master's Program In Mathematics
Master Program
Mathematics
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Master's Program in Mathematics has been established since 2001 as an advanced study program from the Undergraduate Program in Mathematics. The program specializes in mathematical science education with a focus on optimization and operations research.

Supported by the best teaching staff who have national teaching certifications and a conducive academic environment, we are determined to expand students' knowledge of mathematical sciences both theoretically and practically. Graduates of the USU Master's Program in Mathematics have profiles as resource persons, researchers, operations research analysts, and managers, and they have spread across various regions in Indonesia.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

math.prodis2s3@gmail.com

Master's Program in Mathematics

Accredited Baik Sekali

2885/SK/BAN-PT/AK-ISK/M/V/2022

Vision of Master's Program in Mathematics

To become one of the leading Mathematics Research development centers in the field of Optimization and Operations Research in the Southeast Asia region by 2024.

Mission of Master's Program in Mathematics

Quality

Organizing quality education programs that support the development of mathematics theoretically and the practical application of mathematics.

Conducive Environment

Providing facilities and a conducive environment in the implementation of teaching and learning to prepare students to become professional human resources in the field of mathematics.

Research

Expanding and deepening research in all aspects of optimization and operations research.

Collaboration

Foster cooperative relationships with various parties both at home and abroad to always maintain the quality of teaching and research that is up to date.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Pure Mathematics

Statistics

Operations Research

Computational Mathematics

Contact Us
Master's Program in Mathematics
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Bioteknologi No.1, Kampus USU, Padang Bulan, Medan Baru, Medan City - 20155

(+62) - 618211050

math.prodis2s3@gmail.com

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara