MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Agriculture
Master's Program In Agrotechnology
Master Program
Agrotechnology
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Master's Program in Agrotechnology is an advanced study for graduates of the Bachelor of Agrotechnology. This program aims to prepare experts who are able to develop and apply the latest technology in the agricultural sector. Students of this program will study various aspects of agriculture, ranging from crop cultivation techniques, natural resource management, to the use of information technology in agriculture. This aims to improve agricultural productivity and sustainability, as well as provide a strong understanding of effective and sustainable agricultural practices.

Since its establishment in 1952, the program has focused on interactive and effective learning led by experts in the field. The program's commitment is to train students to become future agricultural experts who are skilled and competent in their fields. Graduates of the USU Master's Program in Agrotechnology have extensive career opportunities in various agricultural sectors. The title given to students who complete this program is Master of Agrotechnology (M.Agr.).

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

mag-aet@usu.ac.id

Master's Program in Agrotechnology

Accredited B

No. 3838/SK/BAN-PT/Ak-PPJ/M/VI/2022

Vision of Master's Program in Agrotechnology

Becoming a Master's Program that excels in agriculture and plantation crop research based on local potential and provides graduates who can compete nationally and have a global outlook in 2020

Mission of Master's Program in Agrotechnology

Education

Organizing master's higher education based on a competency-based curriculum to prepare graduates who can compete at a global level.

Research

Developing research and research culture oriented to the problems of agricultural science and technology (plant breeding, agronomy, land resources, and plant pests and diseases), especially plantation crop commodities, as the basis for industrial development in sustainable agriculture for the welfare of society.

Community Service

Providing services to solve real problems in the community.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Soil Science

Agronomy

Plant Pests and Diseases

Plant Breeding

Contact Us
Master's Program in Agrotechnology
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jalan, Prof. A. Sofyan No. 3 Kampus USU Medan – 20155

(+62) - 618213181

mag-aet@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara