MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Lecturer Community Service Team Increasing The Added Value Of Potato Commodities In Pollung Sub-District
USU Lecturer Community Service Team Increasing the Added Value of Potato Commodities in Pollung Sub-district
Published At
27 December 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Lecturer Community Service Team Increasing the Added Value of Potato Commodities in Pollung Sub-district
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 27 December 2021

The program focuses on increasing the added value of potato commodities through processing, into food products to meet the domestic and export markets, in an effort to achieve food security and farmer welfare.

USU PR - The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) lecturer team led by Prof. Dr. Ir Zulkifli Lubis, M.App.Sc, and consists of Prof. Dr. Ir Elisa Julianti, M.Si., and Linda Masniary Lubis, STP, MSi., has carried out community service activities to the community located in Ria-ria Village, Pollung sub-district, Humbang Hasundutan Regency, North Sumatra. The program focuses on increasing the added value of potato commodities through processing, into food products to meet the domestic and export markets, in an effort to achieve food security and farmer welfare.

The activity, which took place on December 4, 2021, was a follow-up to the government's program to increase food security aiming to become financially independent for farmers that has been carried out by the village. The area of ​​land that has been cleared for activities is 215 hectares out of a total area of ​​1,000 hectares. There are 3 types of horticultural crops on the land that have been planted and are divided into one area, namely garlic, shallots, and potatoes. The three types of agricultural products have been harvested, and involve large companies in their production, including Indofood as buyers.

“The model applied in the collaboration is through the Client/Plasma and Core Patron systems. However, it is necessary to review the clarity of the existing cooperative relationship, and to review the existing platforms. So far, there are still residues from the harvest that cannot be accommodated by the buyer's company, which of course requires further processing. Post-harvest technology, in this case, is needed to process potatoes, onions and garlic into downstream products that are needed and have high selling prices,” said Prof. Dr. Ir. Zulkifli Lubis, M.App.Sc.

Potatoes, like other agricultural products, have a fairly high water content. Its shelf life is very low and it is easy to rot if it is not immediately handled post-harvest and processing. Besides being consumed directly, potatoes can be used as raw materials for the food processing industry. The products of the potato food processing industry on the world market are generally in the form of flour, dried potatoes, frozen potatoes, and potato chips.

The objective in implementing this community service activity, added Prof. Zulkifli, is to increase the shelf life and produce food products that can be used to improve health. It also provides business opportunities for the community through potato processing, increasing the income of the community and farmers, through increasing the added value of potatoes and empowering women in potato processing.

The method used in this service activity is in the form of Focus Group Discussion (FGD) about the need for appropriate technology tools for processing at partner locations, training and hands-on practice about the types and benefits of potatoes as food. Also holding training and practice in making various processed potatoes, namely potato flour, potato chips, providing appropriate technology tools for potato processing in the form of drying ovens, practicing the use of appropriate technology tools for processing and quality control of processed potatoes, mentoring and monitoring. As well as evaluation to find out the extent to which partners have made efforts and the obstacles faced in order to get a good resolution. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara