MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
University Activity
USU Community Service Team Provides Press Machine Assistance For Instant Red Ginger Entrepreneurs
USU Community Service Team Provides Press Machine Assistance for Instant Red Ginger Entrepreneurs
Published At
26 September 2021
Published By
David Kevin Handel Hutabarat
USU Community Service Team Provides Press Machine Assistance for Instant Red Ginger Entrepreneurs
 

Published by

David Kevin Handel Hutabarat

Published at

Sunday, 26 September 2021

The Institute for Community Service of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (LPM USU), through the 2021 Non-PNBP Community Service Program Young Lecturer Scheme, conducted community service activities in Kwala Bekala Village for service partners who started an instant red ginger business from July to September 2021.

This service, which had the theme “Utilization of Red Ginger Extracting Machine Technology in the Production of Instant Red Ginger Powder in Kwala Bekala Village,” was led by Karina Nola Sinamo, S.T.P., M.Si., and consisted of Dr. Nauas Domu Marihot Romauli, S.T.P., M.Eng, Ir. Terip Karo-karo, M.S., and Ir. Sentosa Ginting, M.P., lecturers at the Food Science and Technology Study Program, Faculty of Agriculture, Universitas Sumatera Utara.

The service partner of the instant red ginger business, Ma’ Jo, located at Jalan Pintu Air IV Gang Pasar 8 Ujung, Kwala Bekala Village, Medan Johor, started an instant red ginger drink business at the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic. She knows the benefits of red ginger in increasing the body’s immune system to prevent infection with the Coronavirus. Therefore, the partner hoped the instant red ginger powder business would have a great opportunity.

However, during the team’s visit to Ma’ Jo’s instant red ginger business located at Jalan Pintu Air IV Gang Pasar 8 Ujung, Kwala Bekala Village, Medan Johor, it was found that the partner still uses simple equipment in making instant red ginger, namely in the process of mashing and filtering. Crushing red ginger and other spices is done using a blender. Filtering the puree by squeezing it manually (by hand) using a cloth so that making instant red ginger takes a long time. This problem hinders the partners’ desire to meet market demand for instant red ginger drinks and develop their business into an IRT (Household Industry).

Karina Nola Sinamo, S.T.P., M.Si said that in this community service activity, the service team and partners had discussions online and offline to find solutions to the partners’ problems. From the discussion results, the community service team visited directly with students of the Food Science and Technology Study Program and tried several machine tools in the workshop of Ir. Terip Karo-karo, M.S and partner locations. Finally, a red ginger extracting machine was obtained that answered the partner’s problems in extracting red ginger and other spices used in making instant red ginger.

The team conducted community service by providing ginger press machines to the partners to help refine and filter red ginger and other spices or the extraction process. Extracting red ginger and other spices using this ginger press machine does not require as long as when done manually. In addition, the ginger press machine can smooth red ginger and other spices without cutting or slicing them first and extract them until the resulting pulp is dry. The ginger press machine works more effectively and efficiently in the extraction process, and the results are much better than those produced manually. Providing a red ginger press machine is expected to facilitate partners in producing instant red ginger and meeting consumer needs.

The service team also conducted training in the form of hands-on practice using the ginger press machine at the partner’s business location. Practical training on the use of ginger press machine equipment aims to provide an explanation of the principles and how to use it. The team taught the partners how to use a ginger press machine with red ginger and other spices as raw materials. In addition, the team also provided practical training on the sanitization process of ginger press equipment. In this activity, the partners were very enthusiastic and participated in directly practicing the ginger press machine equipment. They understood and had no difficulty in using the ginger press machine.

The owner of the instant red ginger business “Dapur Ma’ Jo”, Frans Saud Simamora, as a community service partner, said that he felt helped by the community service activities that had been carried out and thanked the Institute for Community Service of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (LPM USU) for the assistance of ginger press machines and training on the use of ginger press machines. He hopes that LPM USU will be more successful and that the instant red ginger business of service partners will run more smoothly and develop thanks to the assistance of LPM USU. (RJ)

University Activity
Community Service Activity
Find More Activity
University Activity
USU Lecturer Concern on the Extinction of Orangutan Tapanuli
University Activity
USU professor turns shrimp shell waste into face serum
University Activity
USU Research Collaboration Lowers Stunting Rate in Sergai

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara