MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Ready To Collaborate To Succeed Sister City Medan-Mersin Turkey
USU Ready to Collaborate to Succeed Sister City Medan-Mersin Turkey
Published At
06 January 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Ready to Collaborate to Succeed Sister City Medan-Mersin Turkey
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 06 January 2022

“USU is working on the internationalization of campuses. One way is to invite foreign students and lecturers to work at USU. Therefore, Medan City as a place for USU is also expected to be ready to receive our guests who will come later," said the USU Rector.

USU'S MEDAN-HUMAS: The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) expressed its commitment to support the Sister City Medan-Mersin Turkey program. The statement of commitment was delivered directly by the Rector of USU Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., in a meeting to discuss the maturation of the program on Wednesday (12/29/2021), at the Heritage Restaurant Grand City Hall Medan.

The USU Rector said that the program was in line with USU priority target in the next five years, namely the internationalization of campuses. In order to make the plan a success, he stated that the city of Medan must also be ready.

“USU is working on the internationalization of campuses. One way is to invite foreign students and lecturers to work at USU. Therefore, Medan City as a place for USU is also expected to be ready to receive our guests who will come later," the USU Rector said.

He encouraged the city of Medan to be transformed into an education-friendly city. He said that while in Australia, students there were reluctant to carry out academic activities in the city of Medan because they did not fully have the feel of education.

“When I was in Australia, I asked one of their professors why he didn't choose Medan as his student's academic place. He stated that Medan is a tough city, so students’ parents are worried about the safety of their children. It is different with Masaki Okamoto, a lecturer from Kyoto University who invites his students to Medan City. The result is that around 100 Kyoto University students will come to USU next year," the Rector said.

Education feel is considered important so that foreign students and lecturers feel comfortable in the city of Medan. The Kesawan area is considered appropriate to be developed to become the main area of ​​education that will attract foreign students and lecturers.

“The Kesawan area is very suitable for educational heritage with all the relics and stories in it. So it is appropriate if we use the area as our "sale" to foreign students and lecturers," said Muryanto.

Medan Mayor Bobby Nasution in his speech appreciated USU for being committed to this sister city program. According to him, the support of all parties is very important so that this program can run as expected.

"We hope that both cities can benefit from each other. Especially us in the city of Medan, we hope that we will do a lot of improvements and innovations here. Even though the two cities have different atmosphere and conditions, we can apply several things here,” Bobby said.

He also agreed with Muryanto Amin to advance the education sector. He hopes that the city of Medan will be comfortable for foreign students and lecturers who will later have activities in the city of Medan.

"I want Medan City to be known as a friendly city, which is comfortable for all domestic and international people who come here," he said.

The Medan City Government has previously established sister city cooperation with a number of cities in several countries, such as Gwang ju in South Korea, Ichikawa in Japan, Chendu in China, Geoge Town and Ipoh in Malaysia.

Present at the meeting were Medan City OPD, USU Vice Rector III Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan S.Si, M.Si, Apt, Dr. Ar. Ahmad Delianur Nasution, ST, MT and Dr. Wahyu Aryo Pratomo SE, MEc. (©ULC)

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Humas - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara