MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Hosts The 2023 Broadcasting Conference
USU Hosts The 2023 Broadcasting Conference
Published At
15 August 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Hosts The 2023 Broadcasting Conference
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 15 August 2023

The issue of communication and information is the most challenging challenge. "At the moment, the most challenging issue is social media or new media, followed by the advancement of digital technology, which is nearly impossible to stop if we use journalistic ethics indicators," said the USU Rector.

USU Public Relations - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) hosted the 2023 Indonesian Broadcasting Conference, which was themed "Election Broadcasting Studies Towards the 2024 Democratic Party." The conference occurred on Thursday, July 27, 2023, at the Hotel Adimulia Medan.

Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin S.Sos., M.Si, Rector of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), welcomed all guests and thanked them for their confidence in USU as the host.

Prof Mury stated that communication and information are the most difficult challenges in the face of technological advances, such as the emergence of new media that emphasize less journalistic ethical indicators when disseminating information to the public.

As a result, the discussion at this conference is expected to yield results that will result in more transparent elections and more responsible broadcasting.

"The issue of communication and information is the most challenging challenge. "At the moment, the most challenging issue is social media or new media, followed by the advancement of digital technology, which is nearly impossible to stop if we use journalistic ethics indicators," said the USU Rector.

"As a host, it is important to disseminate the results of this discussion and conference so that we can contribute to making the election better and broadcasting more responsible," he added.

Ir. Lies Handayani Siregar, M.MA, General Administration Assistant of North Sumatra Province, represented the Governor of North Sumatra and emphasized that this conference is important because the progress and development of the broadcasting industry drive it.

As a result, she explained, this development was accompanied by supervision and regulation, ensuring that broadcasting media provided healthy information services to the public.

"Due to the progress and development of the broadcasting industry today, this conference is crucial." Of course, this evolution must be accompanied by supervision and regulation so that broadcast media remain obligated to provide the public with healthy information," she stated.

Concerning the 2024 General Election, Chairperson of Commission I of the House of Representatives Meutya Viada Hafid urged the public to be involved and proactive in assisting the government in succeeding in the common task of the 2024 General Election. One way to participate in the community is to become a critical society or not easily consume information that circulates.

"Completing the 2024 General Election is not easy; it is our shared responsibility." On this auspicious occasion, I urge the broader community to get involved and assist the government in becoming a critical society, which means it is not readily consumed by information. "First, the information received must be verified," she stated.

Ubadillah, Chairman of the Central Indonesian Broadcasting Commission (KPI), hoped for academic support in realizing KPI's goal of becoming a broadcasting regulator, given the current political climate and the need to discuss the broadcasting bill related to digitalization and journalism.

"We hope that academics will strongly support KPI." Because our broadcasting as commissioners representing the public cannot function independently, KPI, as a regulator, receives a lot of input, particularly on our overly lengthy regulations. Hence, the issues discussed are the broadcasting bill, digitalization, and election journalism," he said.

According to KPI Research PIC Amin Shabana, involving academics from universities can help monitor the content of election broadcasts. The Indonesian Broadcasting Commission is committed to further strengthening through the 2023 Indonesian Broadcasting Conference.

"Involving university academics to monitor the content of electoral broadcasts at the center." The Indonesian Broadcasting Conference, which was started by the previous commissioners and has been going on since 2019, is something we will keep doing and even improve, he said.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Campus Life
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara