MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
University Activity
Sobat Bumi Medan's Mangrove Planting Action
Sobat Bumi Medan's Mangrove Planting Action
Published At
08 September 2023
Published By
David Kevin Handel Hutabarat
Sobat Bumi Medan's Mangrove Planting Action
 

Published by

David Kevin Handel Hutabarat

Published at

Friday, 08 September 2023

The mangrove planting action took place on the edge of Kampung Nipah Mangrove Beach, Sei Nagalawan, North Sumatra, a place carefully selected to represent the needs of mangrove growth and development. The action, which began at 10 am and ended at 4 pm, was successfully participated in by 21 Pertamina Foundation Sobat Bumi scholarship awardees.

Independence is not just the right to self-determination but also the responsibility to care for and preserve nature as a legacy for future generations. The spirit of combining these two great values is reflected in the Mangrove planting action by Sobat Bumi Medan, which takes the theme “Greening Independence for Future Generations”. This action became a real symbol of Sobat Bumi Medan that environmental sustainability is an inseparable part of true independence.

 

The mangrove planting action took place on the edge of Kampung Nipah Mangrove Beach, Sei Nagalawan, North Sumatra, a place carefully selected to represent the needs of mangrove growth and development. The action, which began at 10 am and ended at 4 pm, was successfully participated in by 21 Pertamina Foundation Sobat Bumi scholarship awardees. Collaboration between fellow Sobat Bumi scholarship awardees made a real impact on the environment through successful Mangrove seedling planting.

 

Success does not happen alone. In this series of mangrove planting actions, Sobat Bumi Medan collaborated with the Kampung Nipah Mangrove tourism community and the local community to jointly succeed this action. Together, Sobat Bumi Medan has collected 200 mangrove seedlings that need natural protection and are ready to be planted on the shoreline. These partners provided not only facility support but also in-depth knowledge of local conditions and how best to grow strong mangroves.

 

 

This mangrove planting action is not just a moment but the beginning of a long journey towards sustainability. With this action effort, it is hoped that the seedlings will grow into a strong mangrove forest, able to protect the coastline from erosion, maintain biodiversity, and regulate the coastal microclimate.

 

However, this mangrove planting action is not only about the seeds that grow but also about the seeds of knowledge. The Sobat Bumi scholarship awardees who are members of Sobat Bumi Medan were allowed to understand in depth the benefits of the Mangrove ecosystem and the Blue Carbon of the Mangrove Forest. Education about the important role of mangroves in maintaining the balance of coastal ecosystems, providing habitat for various species, and contributing to climate change mitigation will open the eyes and hearts of many people to the importance of protecting nature.

 

Not only that, besides carrying out the action of planting mangroves, Sobat Bumi Medan also enlivened the action of planting mangroves which coincided with Indonesia’s independence day by holding interesting competitions, such as eating crackers, guli spoons, and passing flour. The activity received a positive response from both local residents and visitors who were present there. The competition, attended by children aged 7-10 years, was lively, with laughter among them. Not to mention, Sobat Bumi Medan also provided social donations in the form of providing basic necessities to 10 underprivileged local residents and cleaning inventory in the form of trash cans and brooms to Kampung Nipah Mangrove Beach as one of the sustainability efforts in protecting the environment from waste. Ultimately, the spirit of independence is not only limited to political rights but also the responsibility to pass on a healthy and sustainable earth to future generations.

 

The mangrove planting action by Sobat Bumi Medan is a tangible manifestation of that spirit. In the hands that weave mangrove roots into the soil, we knit a green, sustainable, and hopeful future. May this kind of action continue to inspire real steps to preserve nature’s freedom and realize a better future generation. (Zilmi Haridhi/PF9 Sobat Bumi Medan)

University Activity
Community Service Activity
Find More Activity
University Activity
USU Lecturer Concern on the Extinction of Orangutan Tapanuli
University Activity
USU professor turns shrimp shell waste into face serum
University Activity
USU Research Collaboration Lowers Stunting Rate in Sergai

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara