MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Faculty Of Law Cooperates With AAJI
USU Faculty of Law Cooperates with AAJI
Published At
25 September 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Faculty of Law Cooperates with AAJI
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Sunday, 25 September 2022

"The main goal of building this partnership is to improve the quality of human resources, as well as to open up a wider space for the implementation of various activities that support skill development," said the Rector.

HUMAS - The Faculty of Law (FH) of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) officially cooperates with the Indonesian Life Insurance Association (AAJI). This was stated in the signing of a memorandum of understanding (MoU) as well as a Unit Link Life Insurance seminar in Indonesia with the theme “Understanding the Legal Aspects, Benefits and Risks” which took place at the MoU FH USU Building on Thursday (09/15/2022).

The collaboration between USU and AAJI aims to improve the quality of Human Resources, so that USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos, M.Si in his speech said that the collaboration between the USU Faculty of Law and AAJI would provide a wider space in the development of science, technology, and human resources in the field of legal science, especially related to life insurance. As well as supporting the development of skills, knowledge and innovation of USU graduates in the hope of transferring information, expertise, and experience from AAJI practitioners to USU Faculty of Law students.

"The main objective of building this partnership is to improve the quality of human resources, as well as to open up a wider space for the implementation of various activities that support skill development," said the Rector.

Vice Rector III for Research, Community Service, and Cooperation at the Universitas Sumatera Utara, Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan S.Si., M.Sc., added that the seminar organized was certainly useful in increasing understanding related to life insurance. It is hoped that the implementation of this collaboration is in line with supporting the Merdeka Learning program at the Merdeka Campus.

"Yes, understanding about life insurance is increasing, because in this event there is education about it and then the implementation of this collaboration can support the MBKM program," explained Prof. Poppy.

The Dean of the USU Faculty of Law, Dr. Mahmul Siregar, SH, M. Hum hopes that later after the signing of the cooperation, the activities to be realized can be easily discussed further. In addition to the theme raised, the dean of the Faculty of Law said that the public still lacks education about various insurance products so that through this theme educate the public about insurance so that they know the legal implications and risks in addition to the benefits contained in insurance.

"Our hope is that after this implementation it will be easy for further discussions about what activities we can implement further," said the Dean of the USU Faculty of Law.

Chairman of the Management Board of the Indonesian Life Insurance Association (AAJI) Budi Tampubolon hopes that through collaboration with USU's Faculty of Law, understanding of literacy and education of USU students, especially those who will be involved in the legal field, will increase regarding the insurance industry.

In addition, Budi Tampubolon also expressed his desire to collaborate with other faculties at USU to work together, one of which is FMIPA.

"We hope that the level of understanding of literacy and education of USU people, especially those who will take part in the legal realm, will improve regarding the insurance industry. We also hope that later we can cooperate with other faculties,” said Budi Tampubolon. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - HUMAS

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsyad Mulyadi - HUMAS

News
Collaboration
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara