MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
About
Leader Of University
University Rector
Rector
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Rector Profile

Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si.

Faculty of Social and Political Sciences

Rector of the University of North Sumatra 2021-2026

Rector Speech

Transformation Towards The Ultimate

Previous Rector

Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos, M.Si. (born September 30, 1974) is a political science lecturer at the University of North Sumatra (USU). He is also the 16th Rector of USU who was inaugurated on January 28, 2021 at the Ministry of Education and Culture of the Republic of Indonesia for the period 2021-2026. Mury has served as Dean of FISIP USU for the period 2016–2021, during the leadership of the previous Rector. He is the eldest of four siblings.

Education, Courses, Organizations

Doctor of Political Science and Government

University of Indonesia

Power and Local Politics (A Study of the Role of Pancasila Youth in Supporting Syamsul Arifin and Gatot Pudjonugroho as Governor and Deputy Governor Candidates of North Sumatra Province for the 2008-2013 period)

2008-2013

Master of Political Science and Government

University of Indonesia

2006-2008

Bachelor of Public Administration

Universitas Sumatera Utara

1992-1997

Course Political Youth Leadership (USAID)

Ohio University, Athens, United States

2006

Academic Writing

AUSAID

2009

Social Investment

Ferrostal, Germany

2011

Becoming the Rector of Universitas Sumatera Utara

Muryanto is well aware that in life's journey, sometimes what we get is not what we want. He reflects on his journey so far. In the past, he wanted to work as an employee in a luxurious office, dressed in dapper clothes and wearing a tie with appropriate working hours. However, he did not get that. Fate instead brought him back to USU, and he eventually became a lecturer with a style different from what he originally wanted. Starting when he returned from Jakarta in 2001, the Dean of FISIP USU at the time, Prof. Subhilhar, was looking for a teaching assistant. Muryanto applied and was accepted.

Before becoming a permanent lecturer with Civil Servant (PNS) status, he continued to carry out teaching duties as a teaching assistant and also research as a research assistant. Education, research, and publication activities have been carried out since he was a student because he often became a mentor for new students who tried to change their way of learning when entering higher education. In the end, he made a solid choice to work as a permanent civil servant lecturer because it was based on the atmosphere of work that he had done since he became a teaching assistant.

In 2020, with the support of fellow lecturers at USU, he finally decided to participate in the election as a Candidate for Rector of Universitas Sumatera Utara for the 2021–2026 period. Muryanto Amin managed to get the most votes (18 votes) from other competitors, namely Prof. Dr. dr. Farhat, M.Ked(ORL-HNS), Sp.THT-KL(K) with 11 votes and Prof. Dr. M. Arif Nasution, M.A. with 2 votes at the Plenary Session of the USU Board of Trustees in Jakarta. He is listed as the first Rector who comes from the USU Faculty of Social Science and Political Science (FISIP) and replaces Prof. Dr. Runtung Sitepu S.H., M.Hum. who is the USU Rector for the 2016–2021 period. Mury is also the youngest USU Rector ever appointed, at the age of 46.

Since he was young, Mury has been passionate about music. When he became Rector, Mury remained close to his hobby of playing and listening to music. During the graduation ceremony at Universitas Sumatera Utara in 2022, Mury presented several songs for the graduates so that the graduation moment contained not only formal events but also fun. He performed several songs during the graduation ceremony, which was held in 2 sessions, including Melukis Senja by Budi Doremi, Guru Oemar Bakrie by Iwan Fals, and Kemesraan by Fanky Sahilatua. Mury became the first Rector of Universitas Sumatera Utara to sing at a graduation ceremony. He hoped that the moment of releasing graduates that seemed to be different would be a special memory for USU alumni so that later, they would not forget the alma mater that had raised them.

"The song Melukis Senja conveys the message that graduates should not work and live alone, there are many people who can help with their difficulties and pleasures too. While Oemar Bakrie's song reminds them of the sacrifice of teachers, even though their students often fight, while the teacher's welfare is mediocre, he remains loyal to his profession as a teacher."

Employment History

Chief Editor of Politeia Journal, Journal of Political Science

FISIP USU

During his time as a lecturer at FISIP USU, Mury initiated the publication of Politeia Journal in FISIP USU together with several other FISIP USU lecturers and cooperated with the Medan Branch of Asosiasi Ilmu Politik Indonesia (AIPI or the Indonesian Political Science Association) in 2008. The purpose of publishing this journal is as a means for students and lecturers to write the results of their research. Politeia then became the only political science journal in USU and has been indexed by SINTA.

2008-Present

City Council

Medan City Government

The Medan City Government in 2011 established the City Council as an institution that provides policy considerations to the Mayor. The term of office of the City Council follows the periodization of the Mayor and Deputy Mayor of Medan or for five years. He was elected as one of the members of the City Council at that time along with other Medan City community leaders, such as Prof. Syahrin Harahap, Drs. H. Afifuddin Lubis, M.Si., and Dr. Ir. Budi D. Sinulingga, M.Si. The task given to him was to provide policy considerations in the social and political fields. One of the technical policies that he initiated at that time was the involvement of community elements (religious leaders, traditional leaders, social activists, and citizens deemed to have the ability) at the district level, as well as providing advice to the district on solutions to problems that occur in the district regularly.

2013-2018

Executive Director

Vote Institute

The Vote Institute was established as a medium for lecturers and students who need a political science laboratory unavailable on campus. At that time, he initiated the establishment of the Vote Institute together with fellow lecturers and students to become a study center for learning related to development and social politics. This political laboratory works in a very local area to identify, understand, and use social capital and local wisdom as a basis for the community to use their voting rights. According to him, community aspirations at the local level need to be appropriately managed according to the requirements of democracy, not only using the right to vote in electing regional heads during Regional Head Elections (Pilkada) but also conveying complaints and solutions through dialog mechanisms. He and his colleagues conducted qualitative and quantitative research to map the community profile that must be understood by elites who choose professions as politicians or policymakers.

2013-2014

Commissioner

PT. Perkebunan Nusantara V

During his tenure as Commissioner, he oversaw the implementation of human resource transformation at PTPN V in the form of a whistle-blowing system business process that did not exist before. The policy had a significant impact on the improvement of complaint services from practices that were carried out outside of the applicable regulations. After that, he often accompanied the Board of Directors to conduct a spin-off program for hospitals managed by PTPN V. Initially, the spin-off process was rejected by PTPN employees. However, a series of risk mitigations from the policy can be managed well so the spin-off can run according to the plan that has been set.

2013-2016

Dean

Universitas Sumatera Utara Faculty of Social Science and Political Science

After being inaugurated as Dean of FISIP USU, he accepted the challenge to improve the accreditation of 7 undergraduate study programs that had expired, so it was potentially difficult to get high accreditation. To overcome this, he formed a task force that studied study program profiles, analyzed the problems, prepared work programs, and improved the data structure needed in the accreditation form on an ongoing basis. The results obtained were that from 7 undergraduate study programs that had not been accredited A, within 2 years, they received A accreditation. During his tenure as Dean, he also established the One-Stop Application (ASA) service, which is a service carried out through an application for students, such as submission of thesis trials, certificates, applying for an advisor, and others done digitally. With that, students do not need to spend time coming to campus to take care of their academic administration. Under the leadership of Muryanto Amin, FISIP became a pioneer in establishing and easing digitalization services, so it became an example for other faculties at USU.

2016-2021

Organizational Structure

Leader of University

University Secretary

Board of Trustees

Academic Senate

Board of Professors

Faculty and School

Study Programs

Work Units

Work Sub Units

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara