MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Rector Leads Ceremony To Commemorate 96th Youth Pledge Day
USU Rector Leads Ceremony to Commemorate 96th Youth Pledge Day
Published At
31 October 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
USU Rector Leads Ceremony to Commemorate 96th Youth Pledge Day
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Thursday, 31 October 2024

“Our efforts to further advance Indonesia Raya, of course we as youth, even though our age may be advanced, but the name of youth will always provide service improvements,” said the USU Secretary.

USU PR - The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) vigorously commemorated the 96th Youth Pledge Day with the theme “Forward Together with Greater Indonesia” in the courtyard of the rector's bureau on Monday (28/10/2024). The ceremony took place solemnly with USU Rector Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin S.Sos. M.Si. as the master of ceremonies.

The USU Rector read a speech from the Minister of Youth and Sports of the Republic of Indonesia, Dito Ariotedjo, who emphasized the importance of attention to youth development as an integral part of Indonesia's development. Dito Ariotedjo said that youth, as the subject and object of development, are expected to actively participate in various sectors, including in achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) promoted by the United Nations.

“Indonesian youth have the ability to actively participate in the national development sector,” wrote Dito.

The Youth Development Index (IPP) shows mixed results, with the overall figure reaching 56.33%. In an effort to improve the IPP, the Rector emphasized the need for synergy between the government, society, and educational institutions to create an ecosystem that supports the potential of youth.

Furthermore, the USU Rector said that youth are at the forefront of the nation's development efforts. Although the challenges faced today are quite large, the active and creative role of youth is needed to encourage Indonesia's progress.

The ceremony, which was attended by the academic community, was marked by the wearing of traditional clothing from all over the archipelago, a symbol of the cultural diversity that is the strength and identity of the nation. The Rector emphasized that respect for customs and culture is the foundation for strengthening unity in the midst of diversity.

On the other hand, USU Secretary, Prof. Dr. dr. Muhammad Fidel Ganis Siregar, M.Ked(OG), Sp.OG(K)-Fer, emphasized the importance of the role of youth in advancing the nation, despite their diverse ages. He invited all youth to contribute to the improvement of services in the fields of youth, student affairs, and education governance.

“Our efforts to further advance this Great Indonesia are of course us as youth even though we may be old, but the name of youth will always provide service improvements,” said the USU Secretary.

The USU Secretary also reminded students of the responsibility of students as the next generation of the nation, in accordance with the direction of the chancellor and the ministry, to study seriously to prepare themselves to build the country. He emphasized the need to recall the history of the nation's struggle so that youth can maintain Indonesia's sovereignty and identity.

“As students, the responsibility of this nation and state will be in your hands, so in accordance with the direction of the Rector and the ministry that we are required to study seriously for our preparation to build the nation and state,” said the USU Secretary.

With a collaborative spirit, USU is committed to supporting the development of youth potential to achieve a more prosperous and competitive Indonesia.

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara