MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Vocational Faculty BEM 2024/2025 Officially Inaugurated
USU Vocational Faculty BEM 2024/2025 Officially Inaugurated
Published At
28 June 2024
Published By
David Kevin Handel Hutabarat
USU Vocational Faculty BEM 2024/2025 Officially Inaugurated
 

Published by

David Kevin Handel Hutabarat

Published at

Friday, 28 June 2024

We hope that the Vocational Faculty's BEM of USU can carry out a very good work program by considering the content of its activities to produce more creative and beneficial work programs for students, faculty, the university, and even the community, added Aziz

USU PR — Executive Student Body (BEM) of the Vocational Faculty (FV) of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) for the 2024/2025 Period with the Renaissance Cabinet led by Jovito Septian Wijaya as the Chairman of BEM, and Yovi Steven Sinaga as the Vice Chairman of BEM were successfully inaugurated at the Auditorium of the Vocational Faculty of USU on Tuesday (Jun. 25, 2024). This inauguration marks the second term of the Vocational Faculty's BEM.

The Coordinator of National Insight, Organization, and Community Service at Ditmawa USU, M. Azis Rizky Lubis S.S., M.A., mentioned that the Faculty's BEM is a student organization tasked with assisting in all processes of change at theUniversitas Sumatera Utara. Change is not solely in the hands of faculty or university leaders but also the hands of students through achievements.

Not limited to achievements alone but also balanced with social control. Therefore, students need to be active in doing so in various ways that should be elegant and intellectual, considering the university environment's intellectual nature. BEM should embrace all elements within the faculty to enhance the faculty's reputation, which will also impact the faculty's quality improvement.

Advice on the importance of being trustworthy officials was also conveyed by M. Azis Rizky Lubis S.S., MA., by building coordination between the dean's office and BEM so that both can synergize well to support the faculty's programs, enabling the Vocational Faculty of USU to compete with other Vocational Faculties at the national level.

"We hope that the Vocational Faculty's BEM of USU can carry out a very good work program by considering the content of its activities to produce more creative and beneficial work programs for students, faculty, the university, and even the community," added Aziz.

Through the Vocational Faculty's BEM, it is hoped that work programs can generate innovative products in line with the Vocational Faculty's vision, focusing on action or practice. This statement by M. Azis Rizky Lubis S.S., MA., was also endorsed by the Vice Dean I of the Vocational Faculty of USU, Dr. Drs. Muhammad Husni Thamrin, M.Si. BEM can be the best platform for building and implementing various activities leading to achievements, professions, and skills in line with the characteristics of the Vocational Faculty.

In an organization, effective communication development is necessary for the smooth running of its activities, starting from among members to the dean's office. Conflict management is also an equally important aspect that can be learned while engaging in the organization. Students involved in the Vocational Faculty's BEM are expected to lead and manage activities well for the progress of the region, the university, and even the nation. According to the Vice Dean I of the Vocational Faculty of USU, BEM is the right platform to start training intellectualism and dedicating oneself to society.

"Students are the hope of society, so they are expected to advance their region, which can be implemented through participation in BEM to dedicate themselves and hone their potential," explained Vice Dean I of FV USU.

News
SDGs 11
SDGs
SDGs 10
Campus Life
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara