MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Medicine
Specialist-2 Program In Obstetrics And Gynecology
Spesialist-2 Program
Obstetrics and Gynecology
Universitas Sumatera Utara

This program studies the science and art of pregnancy preparation or those related to midwifery, encompassing fetomaternal, fertility, and gynecology, and is a continuation of the Specialist-1 Program in Obstetrics and Gynecology Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU).

As this program is a newly established study program, it has not received accreditation.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

prodisubspesialisobginfkusu@gmail.com

Vision of Specialist-2 Program in Obstetrics and Gynecology

The vision of the Specialist-2 Program in Obstetrics and Gynecology at the Faculty of Medicine, Universitas Sumatera Utara, is to produce sub-specialist doctors in obstetrics and gynecology who are professionally skilled, independent, innovative, and proficient in the latest technologies in the field of obstetrics and gynecology.

Mission of Specialist-2 Program in Obstetrics and Gynecology

Effective Education

Conduct effective, efficient, and accountable education to produce sub-specialist doctors with broad knowledge, integrity, professional competence, and mastery of cutting-edge technology in obstetrics and gynecology.

Excellent Graduates

Produce human resources or sub-specialist doctors who are excellent, competitive, adaptive, globally minded, and relevant in obstetric and gynecological surgical procedures.

Tridharma

Conduct research and community service in the field of obstetrics and gynecology sub-specialization.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Reproductive Endocrinology and Fertility

Fetomaternal

Contact Us
Specialist-2 Program in Obstetrics and Gynecology
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jln. Cardiac Center, Gedung Paviliun Lt. 1 RSUP H. Adam Malik

0813-6155-4486

prodisubspesialisobginfkusu@gmail.com

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara