MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Universitas Sumatera Utara Faculty Of Economics And Business Celebrates 63rd Anniversary
Universitas Sumatera Utara Faculty of Economics and Business Celebrates 63rd Anniversary
Published At
26 November 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
Universitas Sumatera Utara Faculty of Economics and Business Celebrates 63rd Anniversary
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Tuesday, 26 November 2024

“With three undergraduate study programs, two master study programs, and two doctoral study programs that have been accredited as excellent, FEB USU has made a major contribution to education and research. We appreciate the hard work of the entire academic community, which has been active in creating innovations and producing quality research that is beneficial to society,” said Prof. Muryanto.

USU PR - The Faculty of Economics and Business, Universitas Sumatera Utara (FEB USU) successfully held its 63rd Anniversary celebration, which took place at Prof. Dr. Suhadji Hadibroto Hall, FEB USU, on Monday (25/11/2024).

 

The celebration carried the theme “Collaboration of Academic, Business, and Government” which is very relevant in describing the importance of collaboration to face increasingly complex global challenges. Higher education, especially in the field of economics, has a strategic role in preparing human resources who are not only competent, but also adaptive to the dynamics of the business world and government. For this reason, synergy between academics, business people, and government is the main key to creating innovations and policies that support sustainable economic growth.

 

The Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., expressed his congratulations to FEB USU, which is 63 years old this year. He hopes that FEB USU will continue to be the leading educational institution in Indonesia in the field of economics, especially in supporting efforts to restore, develop, and improve the national economy, both on a micro and macro scale, as well as at the national and international levels.

 

Furthermore, he invited the business world and the government to continue to collaborate with FEB USU through various programs that have a positive impact, both from an economic, social, and cultural aspect. This faculty is expected to be the birthplace of bright ideas and a center of study that is relevant to future economic challenges. On this occasion, the USU Rector also expressed his gratitude to all levels of the dean, teaching staff, and education staff of FEB USU for their dedication to advancing the faculty and supporting the transformation program of the Universitas Sumatera Utara towards a World Class University.

 

“With three undergraduate study programs, two master study programs, and two doctoral study programs that have been accredited as excellent, FEB USU has made a major contribution to education and research. We appreciate the hard work of the entire academic community, which has been active in creating innovations and producing quality research that is beneficial to society,” said Prof. Muryanto.

 

On the same occasion, the Dean of FEB USU, Dr. Fadli, S.E., M.Si., said that since 2021 FEB USU has improved learning facilities and infrastructure that meet international standards to support education and community service. He also highlighted the development of increasingly extensive national and international networks. As a strategic step forward, the Dean of FEB USU plans to open a new study program, namely Islamic Economics, which is in accordance with the needs and development of Islamic economics in the international world. This is expected to further strengthen the position of FEB USU as an educational institution that is able to attract students from various countries.

 

“In the future, we hope that this anniversary can be an attraction and promotional media for foreign students to study at FEB USU. We are also planning to open a new study program, namely Islamic Economics, according to the needs and development of Islamic economics in the international world,” said Dr. Fadli.

News
SDGs
SDGs 8
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara