MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
PERURI Holds Srikandi Goes To Campus At USU
PERURI Holds Srikandi Goes to Campus at USU
Published At
23 June 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
PERURI Holds Srikandi Goes to Campus at USU
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 23 June 2023

Hopefully, all the information sharing that occurs today can open new understandings and ideas for all of us so that we are more confident and optimistic to start new and definite steps in achieving dreams and ideals. Especially to increase the awareness of young campus children to be more confident and eager to explore and develop self-competence.

USU PR: The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) welcomed the General Company of the Republic of Indonesia Money Printing (Peruri) which was mandated by the Ministry of BUMN to organize the Srikandi BUMN Goes to Campus activity, Thursday (22/6/2023). Located at the Prof. Suhadji Hadibroto Auditorium, USU Faculty of Economics and Business, the activity presented two speakers, namely Winarsih Budiriani, Director of Finance and Risk Management of Perum Peruri and Irwan Perangin-angin as Director of PT Perkebunan Nusantara II. Also enlivened by guest star Ika Natassa, novelist and banker.

Srikandi Goes to Campus was initiated by Perum Peruri by involving several SOEs, including PT Bank Mandiri Tbk, PTPN, and PT Indonesia Asahan Aluminum (INALUM). Srikandi Goes to Campus is a community of working women intended to support fellow women in working and achieving various roles as mothers, wives, and workers. Perum Peruri has collaborated with 25 universities throughout Indonesia, including the Universitas Sumatera Utara, which aims to amplify the progress of SOEs and the activities of Srikandi SOEs. It also engages and inspires students to take up careers in SOEs.

Minister of State-Owned Enterprises Erick Thohir said in a video that in order to move Indonesia forward, all elements of society must learn, grow, and contribute together. By routinely launching various development programs, the Minister of SOEs invites USU students to get to know more about the stakeholders in the government of the nation's development wheels through this event. It also teaches that women and men are given the same opportunity to develop their careers.

“Various development programs have been prepared to ensure equal opportunities for young women to hold positions in SOEs. This special activity is a good opportunity for all of you to get to know more closely the important people in the government of the nation's development and explore how you can contribute together and provide equal opportunities for men and women to develop their careers. While ensuring that all employees are valued and respected in their work environment.”

USU Vice Rector IV Prof. Dr. Opim Sitompul, M.Sc, in his speech representing the USU Rector, expressed his appreciation for the implementation of Srikandi Goes to Campus. “I hope that all the information sharing that took place today can open new understandings and ideas for all of us so that we are more confident and optimistic about starting new and definite steps in achieving our dreams and goals. Especially to increase the awareness of young campus children to be more confident and eager to explore and develop their competencies,” she said in front of the participants.

With the theme “Membangun Sinergi dan Berbagi Inspirasi Untuk Indonesia”, the event went well and was filled with enthusiasm. Also present on the occasion were the heads of Perum Peruri divisions, PTPN Srikandi, faculty deans and directorate leaders at USU.

PERURI Director of HR, Technology, and Information Gandung Anggoro Murdani, in his remarks, hoped that the program could become an opportunity for USU students to get to know BUMN more closely. Gandung Anggoro Murdani expects more intensive cooperation between SOEs and USU and other universities, such as in terms of curriculum and student approaches to SOEs.

“Actually, between BUMN and the campus, there should be a medium, or a means so that the BUMN's needs can be met by the campus. There can be two approaches, and the first is the curriculum approach. Maybe cooperation between SOEs and those who make the curriculum, the second is the approach between students and SOEs,” he said. (BR)

 

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Public Relations Staff

Interviewee: Prof. Dr. Opim Salim Sitompul, M.Sc - Vice Rector IV USU

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Special 

News
Education
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara