MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Postgraduate School
Postgraduate School
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

sps@usu.ac.id

The Postgraduate School (SPs) of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is an institution that organizes several postgraduate study programs independently within the University of Sumatera Utara. SPs USU offers six graduate programs, including the Master Program in Management, Master Program in Property Valuation and Management, Master Program in Natural Resources and Environmental Management, Master Program in Regional and Rural Development Planning, Doctoral Program in Natural Resources and Environmental Management, and Doctoral Program in Regional Planning. SPs USU has achieved superior accreditation and is committed to providing the best education that focuses on finding alternatives to solving actual problems based on scientific studies. We are highly committed to producing professional and knowledgeable alums by providing internships or research opportunities at leading companies at home and abroad.

Visit Faculty Page

Management

Master Program

Property and Valuation Management

Master Program

Natural Resources and Environmental Management

Master Program

Regional and Rural Development Planning

Master Program

Natural Resources and Environmental Management

Doctoral Program

Regional Planning

Doctoral Program

Vision of Postgraduate School

To become an international oriented Postgraduate School by characterizing local advantages as the foundation for the development of the Tri-Dharma of Higher Education.

Mission of Postgraduate School

Education

To organize autonomy-based postgraduate education, which serves as a platform for character development and human resource professionalism based on empowerment which contains the spirit of democratization of education that acknowledges diversity with an educational orientation that emphasizes aspects of finding alternative solutions to actual problems based on scientific, moral, and conscience studies.

Research

To create postgraduate students who act as agents of change as a force of modernization in the life of the society at large, who have solid scientific competence, relevance and competitiveness, and who behave with ethical scholarship.

Service

To implement, develop, and improve education, research culture and community service programs in order to improve academic quality by developing advanced knowledge, which is beneficial for changing the lives of the community at large for the better.

Contact Us
Postgraduate School
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Prof. T. Maas Street, USU Campus Medan

(061)-8212453

sps@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara