MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
IKA FEB Literacy Forum: Strengthening Community Economic Resilience
IKA FEB Literacy Forum: Strengthening Community Economic Resilience
Published At
26 November 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
IKA FEB Literacy Forum: Strengthening Community Economic Resilience
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Tuesday, 26 November 2024

“This is very important, especially in the post-pandemic recovery period when the community's economic resilience faces various global challenges,” said Prof. Poppy.

USU PR - The Alumni Association (IKA) of the Faculty of Economics and Business (FEB) of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), together with the Central Information Commission held a Literacy Forum entitled “The Role of the Community in Accessing Public Information for Economic Resilience” at the Student Center on Tuesday, (19/11/2024).

In her remarks, Vice Rector III, Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan S.Si., M.Si., Apt, appreciated this activity as an effort to educate the public regarding public information. Information has a strategic role in the digital era. Easy, precise, and accurate access to public information gives people the opportunity to make better decisions in their personal, social, and economic lives.

“They have the opportunity to make better decisions in their personal lives as well as in social and economic interests,” said Prof. Poppy.

Furthermore, Vice Rector III said that in the context of economic resilience, access to public information is considered crucial to empower people to understand economic opportunities, government policies, and market trends that can be utilized, especially in the post-pandemic recovery period.

“This is very important, especially in the post-pandemic recovery period when people's economic resilience faces various global challenges,” said Prof. Poppy.

Vice Rector III said USU is committed to continuing to improve digital and information literacy through education and training programs, as well as encouraging transparency of public information by collaborating with the government and civil society organizations.

In her interview, OJK's Chief Executive of Financial Services Business Conduct Supervision, Education, and Consumer Protection, Dr. Friderica Widyasari Dewi, S.E., M.B.A explained that this activity aims to educate USU students about the importance of access to public information from state and government institutions, including OJK.

“OJK also continues to prioritize, the provisions in the information disclosure law which are a form of our responsibility for OJK accountability and a form of our integrity as well,” she added.

In addition, he highlighted the challenges of digitalization, where information is now easily obtained but must be wise in choosing reliable sources.

In line with that, Central Information Commission Commissioner, Sanrotunnajah Ismail, S.E, M.Si emphasized the importance of understanding Law No. 14 of 2008 concerning Public Information Disclosure.

“Now with reference to the 2008 law, namely Law number 14, we hope that people will be wiser in choosing, looking for information from sources called public agencies,” said Sanrotunnajah.

According to him, this forum is expected to increase students' awareness as part of a wiser society in utilizing the information available in the digital era.

Through this activity, it is hoped that students will not only understand their right to access public information, but also have the ability to filter useful information and avoid the spread of misinformation.

News
SDGs 4
SDGs
SDGs 8
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara