MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
University Activity
USU Professor Turns Shrimp Shell Waste Into Face Serum
USU professor turns shrimp shell waste into face serum
Published At
11 October 2023
Published By
Wildan Taufik Wibowo Nasution
USU professor turns shrimp shell waste into face serum
 

Published by

Wildan Taufik Wibowo Nasution

Published at

Wednesday, 11 October 2023

His interest in researching and processing chitosan waste began in 1987 while continuing his master's education at the Universiti of Kebangsaan Malaysia. At that time, this Professor of FMIPA USU conducted research using aromatic chemicals. According to him, Chitosan has a lot of potential

USU PR - So far, shrimp shells are often considered as waste, but in the hands of Professor of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Prof. Dr. Harry Agusna, MSc, M.Phill shrimp shells are not just waste but something that can be processed into Chitosan compounds.

Prof. Dr. Harry Agusnar, MSc, M.Phil, a Professor from the Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences, managed to make shrimp shell chitosan into several useful products that are closely used in daily activities.

Prof. Harry Agusnar utilizes shrimp shell chitosan as the main ingredient to make handboy lotion, hand sanitizer, chitosan paper soap, and recently face serum from chitosan with anti-aging claims.

His interest in researching and processing chitosan waste began in 1987 while continuing his master's degree at the Universiti of Kebangsaan Malaysia. At that time, this Professor of FMIPA USU conducted research using aromatic chemicals. According to him, Chitosan has a lot of potential.

"So I tried aromatic chemicals so that compounds from c6 - c10 could be separated. This is what makes us interested in doing research," he said when met at his house on Wednesday (07/06).

Initially, Prof. Harry's family was skeptical about the potential of shrimp shells, but after being applied, the research product caught their attention.

The process of producing chitosan is fairly simple. Prof. Harry explained that first the shrimp has been separated from the skin, then the skin is stored for drying or directly soaked in alkaline water to remove odor.

"Do not cook (shrimp shells) because it can damage (eliminate compounds). I just soak it and it becomes the ingredient," he explains.

Furthermore, to neutralize the odor, the protein and minerals contained in the shrimp shell are removed first.

So far, the products that have been produced by Prof. Harry have received a good response from many parties. One of them is the Chitosan Hand Sanitizer and Chitosan Paper Soap products that were given and used by the community during the COVID-19 pandemic outbreak. He made a breakthrough in alcohol-free hand sanitizer from the chitosan.

Unfortunately, these products have not been circulated to the public because they still meet several requirements to be disseminated, one of which must have a company. Therefore, Prof. Harry hopes that the university can enthusiastically help the product distribution process so that it can be used by the wider community.

Reportedly, Prof. Harry will still have 4 products to be introduced, namely, hair tonic from chitosan, shampoo, conditioner, and yarn from chitosan.

"I made the product that I produced and there will be 4 more products coming hair tonic from chitosan and shampoo, conditioner, and one more collaboration, we make yarn. We hope that the university can be enthusiastic, and help how the existing products can be circulated and used by the public," he concluded.

Article
University Activity
Research Activity
Find More Activity
University Activity
USU Lecturer Concern on the Extinction of Orangutan Tapanuli
University Activity
USU Research Collaboration Lowers Stunting Rate in Sergai
University Activity
Oxalis Dehradunensis Raizada Anti Aging Cream

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara