MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Collaborates With Gakeslab To Strengthen Downstream Health Research
USU Collaborates with Gakeslab to Strengthen Downstream Health Research
Published At
10 October 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Collaborates with Gakeslab to Strengthen Downstream Health Research
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Sunday, 10 October 2021

"This collaboration with Gakeslab is expected to be a liaison between academics and entrepreneurs of medical devices to get real support from the government. Researchers will meet directly with producers, so that research results from academics can be downstreamed and commercialized to be marketed," said USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., signing a memorandum of understanding with Gakeslab virtually at the Rector's Office, Wednesday (10/6/2021).

PR USU - Strengthening downstream research in the health sector, the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) agreed to collaborate with the Indonesian Association of Medical and Laboratory Equipment (Gakeslab).

"This collaboration with Gakeslab is expected to be a liaison between academics and entrepreneurs of medical devices to get real support from the government. Researchers will meet directly with producers, so that research results from academics can be downstreamed and commercialized to be marketed," said USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., signing a memorandum of understanding with Gakeslab virtually at the Rector's Office, Wednesday (10/6/2021).

The Rector explained that the obstacle that occurred was a lecturer whose passion was in research, but lost his passion when entering the market. Passion is in entrepreneurs. Thus, the university is tasked with connecting researchers with entrepreneurs or investors to improve lecturer research.

The Rector himself is very concerned about encouraging the USU academic community to intensify the formula of 7 research themes from the Ministry of Education and Culture. There is a special design for a research project, one of which is Health and Health Technology. USU will allocate some resources to strengthen medical device research. For this theme, the Rector hopes that the existing research is not only basic research, but must strengthen applied research.

“We will design, we need endurance that we really strengthen. So what is an important need can be responded to by universities, what is produced by universities can be matured by industry, especially Gakeslab, "explained the Rector. He hopes that this collaboration can provide benefits for the Republic of Indonesia, especially in the field of medical devices. "Our hope is that we can continue to communicate about the most important things for the conditions needed by Gakeslab members with our researchers who are concerned with medical devices," he added.

Secretary General of Indonesia's Gakeslab dr. Randy H. Teguh, MM said that this joint struggle is the hope of long-term work, so that USU and Gakeslab can jointly strengthen the durability of national medical devices.

"Friends at USU can do reverse engineering for products needed in the field," said dr. Randy.

dr. Randy expressed his pleasure because USU has well received the collaboration with Gakeslab. "We feel grateful, tomorrow we will hold a training program for medical devices, friends at USU have supported and registered for the training," he said. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - PR

News
Collaboration
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara