MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
University Activity
FMIPA USU Lecturers Apply Eucalyptus Leaf Biopesticide For Citrus Plants
FMIPA USU Lecturers Apply Eucalyptus Leaf Biopesticide for Citrus Plants
Published At
03 September 2021
Published By
David Kevin Handel Hutabarat
FMIPA USU Lecturers Apply Eucalyptus Leaf Biopesticide for Citrus Plants
 

Published by

David Kevin Handel Hutabarat

Published at

Friday, 03 September 2021

Citrus plants, like other fruit crops, often face the threat of destructive pests. For this reason, the Community Service Team of USU Lecturers, together with farmers, tried to control fruit fly pests that attack Sweet Orange (Citrus X sinensis) plants through integrated pest control methods with environmentally friendly principles using biopesticides from extracted Eucalyptus oil. After that, a special analysis was conducted on the mortality rate of fruit flies (Bactrocera sp) to determine the optimal dose of biopesticide use.

USU Public Relation - This Community Service activity was initiated by lecturers of the Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences, Universitas Sumatera Utara, led by Dr. Muhammad Taufik, S.Si., M.Si., located in Dolat Rakyat Village, Ujung Sampun District, Karo Regency. The team consisted of Dr. Cut Fatimah Zuhra, Boby Cahyady, S.Si., M.Si., and Dr. Rini Hardiyanti, S.T.P. while providing counseling and materials to the Bukit Rumah Sendi Farmer Group.

“We saw that many farmers failed to harvest in the past year due to fruit fly pests attacking citrus plants. They need alternative environmentally friendly pesticides that can help increase citrus production optimally,” said Dr. Muhammad Taufik.

Biopesticides are pesticides made and taken from natural materials. They are an alternative to synthetic or chemical pesticides, which can have toxic side effects on the environment and living things and can cause resistance to pests.

“Vegetable pesticides made from Eucalyptus are included in environmentally friendly pesticides because they positively impact plants in a certain period of time and are easy to degrade, residues disappear quickly, do not pollute the environment, and are safe for living things. The Community Service Team utilizes the leaves of Eucalyptus grandis planted by the community to take the stems as raw material for pulp making. Still, the leaves have not been maximally utilized. This plant is one of the plants cultivated in North Sumatra after oil palm,” said the Team Leader.

Education through this community service was held in early September 2021, attended by members of the Bukit Rumah Sendi Farmer Group, by implementing Health protocols. Education is expected to contribute to the community by harvesting oranges optimally so that in the future, there will be no more incidents of crop failure that are detrimental to farmers.

“Alhamdulillah, through this activity, we are greatly helped by various information on biopesticides against plant pests, especially sweet oranges. In the future, we hope that the Universitas Sumatera Utara will continue to contribute to farmers like us, especially in cultivating land and plants, so that future harvests can be maximized,” said Leo Napolisa Ginting, Head of the Bukit Rumah Sendi Farmer Group. (RJ)

Article
University Activity
Community Service Activity
Find More Activity
University Activity
USU Lecturer Concern on the Extinction of Orangutan Tapanuli
University Activity
USU professor turns shrimp shell waste into face serum
University Activity
USU Research Collaboration Lowers Stunting Rate in Sergai

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara