MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Social Science And Political Science
Master's Program In Political Science
Master Program
Political Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

As an advanced education from the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Undergraduate Program (S1) in Political Science, the Master's Program in Political Science is responsible for carrying out national politics, public policy, economics, law, psychology, and sociology education.

Our study program is surrounded by competent and dedicated teaching staff and supported by facilities and infrastructure that can create the most comfortable educational atmosphere. Our study program is highly committed to turning our graduates into political science masters who can professionally master the theories of local and Islamic politics and are skilled in local politics in North Sumatra.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

ilmupolitik@usu.ac.id

Master's Program in Political Science

Accredited Baik Sekali

No. 3895/SK/BAN-PT/Ak.KP/M/IV/2024

Vision of Master's Program in Political Science

To become an educational institution that produces Masters in Political Science who master the theories of local and Islamic politics and are skilled in local politics in North Sumatra. Thus, they can professionally solve political, social, economic, and cultural problems in general and regional political issues in particular. In addition, they are also expected to empower the community, both individually, in organizations or groups, and collectively. In addition, they can likely participate in developing political science under the demands of the times or global modernization.

Mission of Master's Program in Political Science

Education

Carry out educational development and develop education, research, community service, and cooperation under the nature of the discipline of Master of Political Science (MIP) FISIP USU in the field of local politics and Islamic politics.

Politic Theory

Educate and train students to become masters of the theories of local politics and Islamic politics so they can perform professionally and solve the problems of regional politics and Islamic politics in North Sumatra.

Social Science

Play an active role in developing the treasures of science related to local politics and Islamic politics so that the theories and methods developed in the Master of Political Science can be able to become a knife of analysis to master, analyze, and solve problems of local politics and Islamic politics, especially in North Sumatra.

Tolerance

Establishing solidarity and tolerance among teachers, students, and the community so that a conducive relationship is established to develop knowledge while maintaining sound moral principles.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Contact Us
Master's Program in Political Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Prof. T. Hanafiah Padang Bulan, Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20222

(+62)-618211965

ilmupolitik@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara