MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Oikumene Christmas Celebration Spreads Peace In The Face Of Elections
USU Oikumene Christmas Celebration Spreads Peace in the Face of Elections
Published At
05 December 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Oikumene Christmas Celebration Spreads Peace in the Face of Elections
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 05 December 2023

Differences are actually great capital for all of us, to develop them into strength and wealth as a great, prosperous and sovereign nation, explained Prof. Muryanto.

USU PR - The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) enlivened the Oikumene Christmas Celebration with a special theme, namely “Sang Raja Damai,” which was chosen with full meaning to describe the spirit of peace and joy in welcoming the birth of Jesus Christ. The celebration was held at the USU Auditorium on Saturday (03/12/2023).

The host and organizing committee of the Oikumene Christmas celebration this time was the Faculty of Law. They have worked hard to ensure that this event is not only a religious celebration but also a moment to strengthen solidarity and unity amidst the diversity of USU students, lecturers, and employees.

In his speech, USU Rector Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si left a message to all Christian academicians present, to be able to continue their important role and contribution at USU in the social area. Among other things, by continuing to develop empathy and strengthen a sense of tolerance, togetherness and appreciation on behalf of humanity.

“The work we do on the basis of professionalism and the implementation of Tridharma, must be able to nullify all differences based on faith background,” said Prof. Muryanto.

The USU record hopes for a unity of vision and views, to jointly build and realize USU to achieve the goal of internationalization. Because diversity is not to enlarge the gap of existing differences, but rather become our challenge to explore the potential of each individual that allows the achievement of great common goals.

“Differences are actually great capital for all of us, to develop them into strength and wealth as a great, prosperous, and sovereign nation,” explained Prof. Muryanto.

On the same occasion, Prof. Dr. Eng. Himsar Ambarita S.T., M.T. who acted as Head of the USU Christian Holiday Committee (PHBK) invited all participants to show Christian values through active participation in this celebration. By declaring and showing oneself as salt and light of the world in daily life.

“One of the duties of the PHBK Association is to coordinate the celebration of Christian holidays at USU. For the Christmas event, the committee will be rotated every year,” explained Prof. Himsar.

Prof. Dr. Ningrum Natasya Sirait S.H., M.LI., as the Head of the Committee, highlighted that some of the funds collected in the framework of this celebration were allocated for natural disaster relief, which shows the spirit of care and solidarity in the midst of Christmas joy. The theme carried in this celebration contains a very important message for students, namely the need to face elections peacefully.

“Hopefully, this kind of celebration will bring us closer together. Thank you to the Rector of USU, the university staff, and those who provide moral and material support,” said Prof. Ningrum.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Public Relations

Interviewee: Prof. Muryanto Amin - Rector of USU

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Public Relations

News
Campus Life
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara