MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Supporting WCU, USU FKep Holds MICoN-Tech
Supporting WCU, USU FKep Holds MICoN-Tech
Published At
01 November 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Supporting WCU, USU FKep Holds MICoN-Tech
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 01 November 2022

Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si said that this conference was able to provide information regarding how to increase resilience in the new normal era by working together, as well as ensuring a sustainable future with various health problems that require attention

USU PR - The Faculty of Nursing (FKep), Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held the Medan International Conference on Nursing and Technology (MICoN-Tech). This event was held at Hotel Grandhika on Monday (10/10/2022).

This activity, which was held on October 10 to 11, 2022, aims to support the Universitas Sumatera Utara towards a World Class University (WCU). In addition, it also improves the main performance indicators (KPI) of the Faculty of Nursing, increases the number of reputable international publications for lecturers and students and gains new knowledge about health, both education and services.

Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si said that this conference was able to provide information regarding how to increase resilience in the new normal era by working together, as well as ensuring a sustainable future with various health problems that require attention.

“This conference is also expected to explore further how to increase resilience in the new normal era and ensure sustainable future with several problems in the pandemic era remaining. The increasing problems in the health sector continuously requires care and cooperation of all of us,” the Rector of USU said.

Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si added that the activity is expected to generate various ideas for the benefit of the community. Furthermore, this conference is employed to gain a lot of information and it will encourage to increase the number of articles published in reputable journals.

“I hope that all conference participants are able to take advantages of this conference to get various information they need and increase the number of articles published in reputable journals which will significantly impact university rankings in various rating agencies," he said.

Dean of the Faculty of Nursing Dr. Dudut Tanjung, SKp, M.Kep, Sp.KMB hopes that this activity can be carried out regularly with better preparation. Therefore, the Dean of the Faculty of Nursing is optimistic about the outcome of MICoN-Tech, namely increasing USU ranking in WCU.

"We will definitely carry out this activity regularly and with God willing, in the future we will prepare as well as possible so that the implementation will be even better. This is one of the achievements of the 5th and 6th KPIs, namely international publications and international cooperation, to further improve USU's ranking in WCU,” he said

Chairman of the Medan International Conference on Nursing and Technology Committee, Dr. Siti Zahara Nasution S.Kp., MNS also hopes that the Universitas Sumatera Utara can enter WCU and the nursing faculty will be able to achieve international accreditation. Therefore, it is hoped that all participants can listen carefully to the latest information from MICoN-Tech activities regarding education, nursing, and services.

“My hope is that USU can reach WCU to become a university in Indonesia that is considered by the community as a place to study. And secondly, so that the nursing faculty of the Universitas Sumatera Utara can obtain international accreditation," he said. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Research
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara