MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Economics And Business
Undergraduate Program In Accounting
Undergraduate Program
Accounting
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Undergraduate Program in Accounting of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) was established in 1961, making it one of the oldest study programs in the university. The curriculum of this program covers accounting principles, financial bookkeeping, financial reporting, auditing, and other financial aspects. The main objective of this program is to train students to manage financial information accurately, understand accounting laws and regulations, and develop analytical skills in financial decision-making.

The vision of the Undergraduate Program in Accounting is to be excellent in the fields of Social Planning and Development Consultants, Social Research, and Community Empowerment towards the global level. Graduates of the Undergraduate Program in Accounting have broad career prospects in various sectors such as Auditing, Financial Consulting, Financial Management, and Risk Management. With strong analytical skills, they can assist companies and organizations as accountants or financial consultants. Students who complete this study program will be awarded a Bachelor of Economics (S.E.) degree.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

akuntansi@usu.ac.id

Undergraduate Program in Accounting

Accredited FIBAA

-

Vision of Undergraduate Program in Accounting

"To become a reputable Accounting Study Program in social and development planning novice consultants, social research, and community empowerment towards a global level."

Mission of Undergraduate Program in Accounting

Education

Organizing excellent, creative and innovative education and teaching based on TALENTA in the era of the Industrial Revolution 4.0 to create graduates with BINTANG character who have scientific ethics and can develop accounting science.

Research

Conducting research on multicultural issues based on local wisdom published in national and international scientific proceedings/journals.

Community Service

Conducting community service focusing on community empowerment for marginalized groups in rural and urban areas.

Collaboration

Organizing collaboration and partnership with entrepreneurs, corporations and government in sustainable development.

Professionality

Building a platform to produce professional accountants with discipline, integrity, sincerity and dedication.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Auditing

Public Sector Accounting

Financial Accounting

Management Accounting

Accounting Information System

Contact Us
Undergraduate Program in Accounting
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. TM. Hanafiah, Kampus USU Medan

+62 821-6222-7464

akuntansi@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara