MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Cultural Science
Undergraduate Program In Japanese Literature
Undergraduate Program
Japanese Literature
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Undergraduate Program in Japanese Literature of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is one of the study programs in the Faculty of Cultural Science that produced outstanding students and made them experts in Japanese literature who are recognized domestically and internationally. This study program's main focus is to provide knowledge and skills in Japanese language, literature, and culture. With the support of lecturers who are experts in Japanese literature with national teaching certifications and the use of an integrated curriculum, we are committed to providing an interactive education and learning experience to our students. Our goal is to create graduates who are the best in the field of Japanese literature and able to compete at the national and international levels.

Many career opportunities are open to Japanese Literature graduates, such as becoming translators, educators, lexicographers, and even working in Japanese companies. Our graduates can also work in various sectors such as tourism, immigration, mass media, and other institutions that require linguists and cultural experts.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

sastrajepang@usu.ac.id

Undergraduate Program in Japanese Literature

Accredited Very Good

No. 135/SK/BAN-PT/Ak-PPJ/S/I/2022

Vision of Undergraduate Program in Japanese Literature

The Undergraduate Program in Japanese Literature of the Universitas Sumatera Utara Faculty of Cultural Science will become a professional program that produces skilled graduates in the Japanese language and possesses internationally recognized insights into Japanese linguistics, literature, society, and culture by the year 2025.

Mission of Undergraduate Program in Japanese Literature

Internationally Recognized

To implement education that produces professional graduates capable of effective communication in the Japanese language both orally and in writing as well as possess knowledge in the fields of Japanese linguistics, literature, society, and culture that is internationally recognized.

Quality

To implement education that produces professional graduates who are responsible for their knowledge and have intellectual qualities that are reliable and cultured.

Publication

To foster and develop research experiences in the fields of Japanese linguistics, literature, society, and culture as well as to disseminate the findings through publications and scientific gatherings at regional, national, and international levels.

Research and Community Service

To conduct research and community service in the fields of language, literature, society, and culture of Japan, involving students for the benefit of society and to solve societal issues.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Japanese Language

Linguistics

Japanese Literature

Japanese Society

Contact Us
Undergraduate Program in Japanese Literature
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Universitas No.19, Padang Bulan, Kec. Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20155

(061) - 8215956

sastrajepang@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara