MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Rector Launches 20 Digital Campus Applications
USU Rector Launches 20 Digital Campus Applications
Published At
19 February 2024
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Rector Launches 20 Digital Campus Applications
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 19 February 2024

“Thank you for the three years that I have led the Universitas Sumatera Utara, the professors, lecturers, and work unit leaders who work sincerely and genuinely, said Prof. Muryanto.”

USU PR - Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin S.Sos., M.Si., launched the USU Digital Campus in his three years of leadership by introducing 20 applications owned to facilitate tri dharma services at USU. The event itself was also coupled with running sports activities under the theme “USU Run Bareng Rector,” which started from the USU Auditorium courtyard and ended at the Pancasila Building on Saturday (17/02/2024).

The USU Rector expressed his gratitude to the professors, lecturers, and work unit leaders who have worked hard sincerely and sincerely during his three years of leadership at USU, in realizing common goals. Through this activity, it is hoped that students will be more motivated to take part in programs that support them in facing the world of work.

“Thank you for the three years that I have led the Universitas Sumatera Utara, the professors, lecturers, and work unit leaders who work sincerely and genuinely,” said Prof. Muryanto.

The USU Rector said that to create togetherness, it does not always have to be through formal activities. Activities that are fun but still convey messages can strengthen motivation and enthusiasm both for students, lecturers, and education staff. The Rector also noted that this activity can create a more relaxed atmosphere and remove the barrier between students and the rector.

“To create togetherness, it can also be done through funny activities. Because students are often afraid to meet the chancellor, so this activity can eliminate that barrier,” explained Prof. Muryanto.

The head of the USU Academic Senate, Prof. Dr. Suwarto, SH, MH, explained that over the past three years, there have been positive developments, especially in 2023, with the appointment of more professors. The increase in the number of professors is expected to make a significant contribution to USU's academic performance, which is heading towards becoming a World-Class University.

“The professors are expected to increase USU's cooperation with professors abroad to carry out joint research, joint teaching, and others,” hoped Prof. Suwarto.

Secretary of the USU Council of Professors (DGB) Prof. Dr. Tamrin, MSc said that since 2021-2024, there has been rapid progress made by the USU Rector and his staff. This progress is mainly seen in job placement, improving the quality of lecturers, and the development of the teaching and learning process. During this period, the university also managed to publish 10,000 scientific papers.

“It is hoped that students will produce scientific papers to be published in international journals, and laboratories can be further developed to support the progress of lecturers and students,” said Prof. Thamrin.

USU Applications

The 20 lists of applications created in the three years of leadership of Rector Prof. Muryanto Amin are:

Sistem Informasi Kertas Kerja RKA, which is a supporting system for the USU Budget Work Plan for each work unit.

Konten Web USU provides information effectively to the public through a web platform as a means of education.

Layanan Administrasi Universitas (LARAS), which embodies the Rector's work program through the Directorate of Digitalization and System Integration with the Bureau of Human Resources.

Manajemen Evaluasi Kinerja Aparatur (MEKAR) USU which is used to record the planning, implementation, evaluation, and feedback of an employee's performance in one assessment period.

Sistem Informasi Layanan Administrasi (SILA) https://tiket.usu.ac.id/, which prioritizes service speed and output accuracy.Sistem informasi pendampingan penulisan karya ilmiah dan pengusulan hak kekayaan intelektual (SILIPIHKI) developed to accommodate the need for assistance in writing scientific papers.

Sistem Penjaminan Mutu Internal (SPMI) is designed to ensure the quality of academic degrees awarded.Forum Informasi dan Komunikasi Akademik (FIONA) which became a website-based Digital Discussion Forum (E-Forum).Sistem Informasi Penatakelolaan Aset Tetap dan Logistik Terintegrasi (SI-KALISTA) kalista.usu.ac.id, which records, distributes, maintains, deletes and reports on all assets within USU.

Sistem Informasi Akademik (SIA) which is used for data collection and management of USU academic data.Satu Mahasiswa is an application used to provide student administration information, such as lecture schedules, heregistration, tuition payments, KRS filling, KHS information, academic guidance, and teaching lecturer evaluations.Satu Dosen is an application used to convey information related to Lecturer Biodata, Courses taught and Tri Dharma more easily.

World Class University (WCU) USU is an information system used to record the involvement of USU academics in the scope of international academics.

ERP One Data USU aims to integrate every information system in the USU environment. This concept involves an in-depth analysis of the existing conditions and information system needs required.

Sistem Aplikasi dan Transaksi Keuangan (SANTIKA) is used to manage USU's financial activities such as recording activity work plans and work unit requests; financial fund management; USU employee salary management; financial transactions; Fund Accountability; and archiving of all USU financial activities.

Sistem Informasi Surat Keputusan (SISKA) which is used to submit the Rector's decision letter in accordance with the authority of the work unit.

Tagihan Sewa dan Usaha (TASHA) which is used to manage the process of leasing/trading USU assets as well as monitoring the stages of verification and payment of bills.Sistem Elektronik Perkantoran Terintegrasi (SEPTIA) is used to facilitate the correspondence process for both internal and external USU.

Sistem Informasi Legalisasi dan Verifikasi Ijazah (SILVIA) is used to archive diplomas and transcripts digitally.SIMKOMPETEN, which is used for quality improvement efforts with international program facilities.

 

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Public RelationsInterviewee: Prof. Muryanto Amin - Rector USUPhotographer: Amri Simatupang - Public Relations 

News
SDGs 11
SDGs
SDGs 9
Management
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara