MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Cultural Science
Master's Program In Historical Science
Master Program
Historical Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

As an advanced study program after the Undergraduate Program in Historical Science that was established in 2012, the Master's Program in Historical Science of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) examines in more depth the understanding of history, including the analysis of the impact of historical events on the current state of politics, economics, ethnic development, and religion. Supported by experts in the field of history with national teaching certifications and an integrated curriculum, we are committed to providing our students with intense and effective guidance and learning experiences. Our goal is to enhance students' abilities and prepare them to become competent and excellent historians in their fields so that they can compete in both national and international markets. Graduates of the Master's Program in Historical Science are expected to master knowledge of historical methods, historical theories and methodologies, historiography, and historical geography.

Graduates of the Master's Program in Historical Science have the potential to pursue careers in various institutions such as educational institutions, conservation centers, cultural heritage, cultural offices, archival institutions, and so on.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

magistersejarahusu@usu.ac.id

Master's Program in Historical Science

Accredited Very Good

No. 4713/SK/BAN-PT/Ak-PNB/M/VI/2024

Vision of Master's Program in Historical Science

To become a center for cultural history research with a multidimensional approach characterized by outstanding local excellence at the national and regional levels by the year 2025.

Mission of Master's Program in Historical Science

Quality Improvement

To organize well-planned, dynamic, and integrity-driven history education at the master's level that is oriented towards improving quality and able to compete at the global level.

Research

To conduct quality research and publish them in accredited national and international journals as well as disseminate them to stakeholders.

Community Service

To conduct community service to promote cultural history awareness, strengthen local culture, and support the development of the tourism industry.

Cooperation

To establish cooperation with various stakeholders, including regional and central government as well as both domestic and international university research institutes, to support research and community service implementation.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Political History

Social and Economic History

Islam in History

Ethnohistory

Contact Us
Master's Program in Historical Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Universitas No.19, Padang Bulan, Kec. Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20155

(061) - 8215956

magistersejarahusu@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara