MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Campus Life
City Tour Of Medan
Waterland Tamora
Waterland Tamora

Waterland Tamora

Waterland Tamora is an exhilarating water park in Tanjung Morawa, North Sumatra. This water park is designed to provide a wonderful vacation experience for the whole family. Especially for children who love water, Waterland Tamora is the perfect place to enjoy a fun-filled vacation. With its strategic location on the roadside, Waterland Tamora is easy to reach by private vehicle, motorcycle, or public transportation. This destination has been recognized by many as it has been in operation for quite some time, offering a proven and reliable experience. Entrance tickets to the park are affordable, ranging from 25,000 to 35,000 rupiah per person, making it an economical choice for a vacation. Waterland Tamora also offers convenience for its visitors. The large parking area makes it easy for visitors to find a place for their vehicles. At the same time, the clean changing room facilities provide comfort when changing clothes after splashing around in the refreshing water. No need to worry about going hungry after playing, as the water park offers a cafeteria with a wide selection of delicious menus that can satisfy visitors' appetites. In addition, Waterland Tamora also provides swimming equipment rental for both children and adults. With this facility, visitors can easily rent the required equipment and enjoy the various water rides offered safely and comfortably. So, don't miss the opportunity to visit Waterland Tamora, this exciting recreational destination, and enjoy a fun-filled vacation with your family.

Other Information

Waterland Tamora is a water park recreation in Tanjung Morawa. With clean and complete facilities, an easily accessible location, a large parking area, and very affordable entrance tickets, this place is an economical choice for a vacation.

Jl. Bandar Labuhan, Limau Manis, Tanjung Morawa, Deli Serdang Regency, North Sumatra, 20362
Monday–Friday : IDR25,000 — Saturday, Sunday, dan Holiday : IDR35,000
Every Day at 09:30–18:00 WIB

Other Tourisms

Other Tourisms

Aksara Park

A nightlife wonderland with unmissable culinary and amusement rides

Katamso Land

An Up-to-date Market with an Unforgettable Culinary and Entertainment Experience

Tjong Yong Hian Garden

Tjong Yong Hian Park, A Precious Heritage of Tjong Yong Hian in Medan with an Alluring Chinese Style Charm

Indonesian Plantation Museum

Let's Uncover the Glorious History and Wealth of Indonesian Plantations at the Indonesian Plantation Museum

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara