MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Delegation, Dr. Immanuel & Dr. Atikah, Triumph 9th APMF
USU Delegation, Dr. Immanuel & Dr. Atikah, Triumph 9th APMF
Published At
20 October 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Delegation, Dr. Immanuel & Dr. Atikah, Triumph 9th APMF
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 20 October 2023

A proud achievement came from the delegation team from the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Faculty of Medicine, University of North Sumatra (USU); Dr. Immanuel Dio L Tobing, who was honored as the 1st place winner in the E-Poster Presentation, demonstrating resilience by surpassing fierce competitors from various countries. Equally impressive, Dr. Atikah Zahra Mustafa Nasution secured the 2nd place title in the Asia-Pacific Menopause Olympiad, solidifying the superior position of the USU delegation team.

The 9th Scientific Meeting of the Asia Pacific Menopause Federation (APMF) was successfully held in Denpasar, Bali, from October 6th to 8th, 2023. The event, inaugurated by the President of APMF 2021-2023, Prof., Dr., Dr., M. Fidel Ganis Siregar, M.Ked (OG), Sp OG Subsp F.E.R, served as a magnet for experts and healthcare practitioners from 15 member countries. Among these were Australia, Malaysia, China, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Japan, Taiwan, Korea, India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Mongolia, and Sri Lanka.

A close collaboration with the International Menopause Society (IMS) as the global parent organization for menopause, with its president Nick Panay (UK), former President Steve Goldstein (USA), President-elect Rosella Nappi (Italy), and 11 IMS executives from Costa Rica, Canada, and South Africa, enriched the three-day event. Prof. Fidel Siregar from Indonesia is also one of the current Vice-Chairpersons of CAMS-IMS.

Representing diverse fields of expertise, the expert speakers in the field of menopause contributed to sharing the latest knowledge, aiming to bring a positive impact on the care and health of women worldwide.

Furthermore, the event organized a scientific competition that was participated in by individuals who had successfully passed stringent selection. The competition included an oral presentation category with 34 participants, a poster presentation category with 48 participants, and a menopause Olympiad with 18 participants from various countries in the Asia-Pacific region. This diversity reflects a spirit of healthy competition and the participants' enthusiasm in sharing the latest findings and innovations in addressing menopause-related issues.

A proud achievement came from the delegation team from the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Faculty of Medicine, University of North Sumatra (USU), namely Dr. Immanuel Dio L Tobing, who was awarded the 1st place in the E-Poster Presentation, showcasing resilience in surpassing tough competitors from various countries. Equally impressive, Dr. Atikah Zahra Mustafa Nasution secured the 2nd place in the Asia-Pacific Menopause Olympiad, solidifying the superior position of the USU delegation team.

The remarkable accomplishments were particularly impressive, considering that the participants in this prestigious event included not only general practitioners, specialists, subspecialist trainees, and gynecology consultants but also professors. Dr. Immanuel Dio L Tobing and Dr. Atikah Zahra Mustafa Nasution demonstrated exceptional dedication and knowledge before the audience. These outstanding achievements by the two prospective specialist obstetricians and gynecologists from the Faculty of Medicine, USU, have brought honor to Indonesia and affirmed the quality of education and guidance provided by the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Universitas Sumatera Utara.

Prof. Fidel Ganis expressed hope that the outstanding achievements of Dr. Immanuel Dio L Tobing and Dr. Atikah Zahra Mustafa Nasution would inspire and bring positive spirits in efforts to enhance the quality of health services, particularly in women's health. "We look forward to other extraordinary achievements from our fellow countrymen on the international stage," he said.

In this event, the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Faculty of Medicine, USU, fielded 10 participants for oral presentations, 4 participants for e-posters, and 2 participants for the Olympiad, all from the Specialist Program and Subspecialist Program in Obstetrics and Gynecology.

With the success of this event, it is hoped that the process of knowledge transfer and the enhancement of understanding regarding menopause will continue to grow, providing benefits for the wider community, especially for health professionals who are concerned about the well-being and health of women. (*)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Achievement
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara