MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Promotes Thematic Community Service Program To The North Sumatra Government
USU Promotes Thematic Community Service Program to the North Sumatra Government
Published At
12 April 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Promotes Thematic Community Service Program to the North Sumatra Government
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 12 April 2022

“Diversity of needs and the development of the times are important things to be addressed in carrying out community service. Important adaptation is a concern for both USU itself and with partners. Therefore, we always coordinate about the material and what students and partners will do," the USU Chancellor said.

USU PR - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held a socialization of the Free Campus Independent Learning Program (MBKM) Thematic Community Service Program (KKN). The activity took place at the Grandhika Hotel Ballroom, Medan on Tuesday (3/29/2022). This activity targets Regency/City Governments in North Sumatra.

Present and directly opening the event were USU Chancellor Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., accompanied by USU Vice Chancellor I Dr Edy Ikhsan, SH, MA, and USU Vice Chancellor III Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan, M Si, apt,. In addition, the Secretary of the USU Community Service Institute, Meutia Nauly, S.Psi, M.Si, a Psychologist. The deans at USU were also present.

The USU Chancellor appreciated the USU LPPM for making this activity possible. According to him, adaptation in the implementation of community service must be carried out. This is based on the increasingly diverse needs and current developments.

“Diversity of needs and the development of the times are important things to be addressed in carrying out community service. Important adaptation is a concern for both USU itself and with partners. Therefore, we always coordinate regarding the material and what students and partners will do," the USU Chancellor said.

Today, according to him, the central government has made a shift in development by paying more attention to village development. Currently, the government has allocated a lot of development funds to improve the economic standard of rural communities. The role of universities is important in the development process.

"The government is making efforts to move the people's economy, especially villages, for economic stimulus. If in the city of course the service business sector, entertainment becomes income. But in the village, the potential is also there and much. As now, there are many tourist villages appearing," he said.

According to him, tourist villages that have sprung up are not only based on beautiful natural scenery or appearances. A tourism village is measured comprehensively by considering aspects of infrastructure and community readiness as well. The concept of a tourism village must be studied and developed in a sustainable manner.

“KKN is not to solve problems directly, because it is impossible within 6 months to solve the problem. However, KKN is more about stimulating the community so that they can solve village problems. Starting to create an ecosystem so that the community, government, and universities can come up with solutions that have an impact,” he explained.

Secretary of USU's LPPM Meutia Nauly said that this KKN was different from regular KKN. This KKN requires more things, namely thematic. This would not be possible without cooperation with the local government, she said.

“This KKN is no longer 35 days, but up to 6 months with a weight of 20 credits. Therefore, we started the series to start this thematic KKN by inviting regional representatives to find out what was needed and what we could do. We hope that this event will be useful for students to bring up star characters, for the community to build villages," she said.

Meanwhile, the KKN partners represented by the Head of Development of the Village Community Empowerment Office of North Sumatra Province, Drs. Toman Nababan, MSP said that the provincial government also focuses on village development.

“The North Sumatra Provincial Government has a tagline to build villages to organize cities. In this case, it is necessary to cooperate with various parties, especially universities. We really appreciate this activity," Toman said.

He added that according to Law no. 6/2014 on villages, the government allocates 700-900 million per village to develop villages. He hopes that with the presence of students in the field so that the use of village funds can be maximized by the community.

“There are BUMDes and bumdesma that manage village assets. We hope that students can map their potential so that it can be maximized for their welfare. With the direct attendance of students, it is hoped that they will be able to make a grand design in developing the village, so that they can contribute to PAD (Regional Original Revenue)," he concluded. (©ULC)

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara