MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
FK USU Synergizes With Alumni To Improve Quality
FK USU Synergizes with Alumni to Improve Quality
Published At
19 February 2024
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
FK USU Synergizes with Alumni to Improve Quality
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 19 February 2024

We need to enhance collaboration not only through the Alumni Association but also directly with alumni who hold important positions," explained Prof. Aldy.

USU PR – Faculty of Medicine, Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), created a moment of togetherness for alumni in the city of Medan through an Alumni Gathering event held at Adimulia Hotel, Tokyo Room, on Wednesday (Jan. 16, 2024).

Dean of the Faculty of Medicine, USU, Prof. Dr. dr. Aldy Safruddin Rambe Sp.S(K), delivered a warm welcome and expressed gratitude to the attending alumni. Prof. Dr. dr. Aldy Safruddin Rambe Sp.S(K) also explained that the Faculty of Medicine, USU, has been collaborating with the Alumni Association of the Faculty of Medicine, USU, which has established a network throughout Indonesia. This effort is expected to expand collaboration and gain greater support to enhance USU's reputation and international ranking.

"We need to enhance collaboration not only through the Alumni Association but also directly with alumni who hold important positions," explained Prof. Aldy.

Furthermore, Prof. Dr. dr. Aldy Safruddin Rambe Sp.S(K) stated his commitment to improving the quality of alumni by evaluating the education process at the Faculty of Medicine, USU. Regular evaluations are conducted each semester to assess various aspects of the quality education system. The results of these evaluations serve as the basis for designing continuous improvements.

"We always strive to improve the quality of our alumni by routinely evaluating the education process and implementing improvements based on the evaluation results," emphasized Prof. Aldy.

In line with this, Dr. Inke Nadia Diniyanti Lubis M.Ked(Ped)., Sp.A, Ph.D, explained that this meeting aims to strengthen the relationship between alumni and alma mater. Additionally, the event seeks input from alumni who have reached leadership positions in their workplaces. In this meeting, information is expected to be gathered on how USU graduates collaborate with them currently and insights on enhancing the quality of future graduates.

"The input from alumni in the workforce, especially those in leadership positions, is invaluable in helping us improve the quality of our students," said Dr. Inke.

Looking ahead, Dr. Inke Nadia Diniyanti Lubis M.Ked(Ped)., Sp.A, Ph.D plans to hold this activity regularly, involving alumni from all over Indonesia. By inviting alumni from various regions, the meeting is expected to become a more comprehensive platform for sharing experiences, building collaborations, and making positive contributions to the alma mater's development and the involved alumni's progress.

"Our hope for this year is to conduct a larger alumni gathering, not only inviting alumni from Medan but also from all over Indonesia," Dr. Inke expressed.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
SDGs
SDGs 1
SDGs 8
Alumni & Career
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara