MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Evaluation Of The 2020-2024 Strategic Plan: The Importance Of Strengthening The Quality Of Study Programs
Evaluation of the 2020-2024 Strategic Plan: The Importance of Strengthening the Quality of Study Programs
Published At
20 March 2025
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Evaluation of the 2020-2024 Strategic Plan: The Importance of Strengthening the Quality of Study Programs
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 20 March 2025

“Study program leaders are addressed two skills at once, the skills to have the capacity to work from curriculum policy to ensuring its technical implementation,” said the rector.

 

Public Relations USU - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held a Management Review Meeting - Control Meeting in order to evaluate the 2020-2024 Strategic Plan (Renstra) in the Academic Senate Room on Wednesday, (12/03/2025). In this meeting, the Rector of USU, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., emphasized the importance of strengthening the quality of study programs and increasing the effectiveness of academic management.

 

In his remarks, the USU Rector highlighted the challenges faced in managing study programs, especially related to the transition of lecturers who are given additional duties as leaders of study programs. Besides being responsible for curriculum policy aspects, they must also have technical skills in implementing academic standards.

 

“Study program leaders are addressed two skills at once, the skills to have the capacity to work from curriculum policy to ensuring its technical implementation,” said the rector.

 

Furthermore, the rector said that one of the main challenges in the last four years has been the role of operators at the study program level. Although policies and plans have been well developed, the quality of implementation depends heavily on the operators. If the operators do not work optimally, the quality of the study program will also be affected.

 

“All activities in the study program go to the operator. So even if it is well planned and even implemented but the operator is not right, it will not be right in the end,” explained the Rector.

 

On the same occasion, the Head of the USU Quality Assurance Agency (BPM), Dr. dr. Isti Ilmiati Fujiati, M.Sc. CM-FM., M.Pd, Ked., FISPH FISCM., Sp.KKLP., Subsp.COMC, explained that of the 10 targets and 44 work programs set in the 2020-2024 Strategic Plan, the achievement of indicators has reached more than 80%. However, some targets are still in the process of being achieved, such as international accreditation.

 

“Currently, we are still waiting for the results of international accreditation from FIBAA for 15 study programs,” she explained.

 

In addition, Isti Ilmiati also emphasized the importance of continuous evaluation to ensure the continuity of academic quality. Reflection on the achievements of the previous Strategic Plan is the basis for developing future strategies so that study programs can continue to grow and make a better contribution to the university.

 

“Because essentially if we talk about quality, then we talk about sustainability,” she added.

 

This evaluation is important to detect problems in study programs and strengthen the foundation needed to carry out the planned transformation.

News
SDGs 4
SDGs 11
SDGs
SDGs 8
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara