MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
128 Participants Follow Interview Stage Of The USU's SPBU
128 Participants Follow Interview Stage of the USU's SPBU
Published At
21 July 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
128 Participants Follow Interview Stage of the USU's SPBU
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 21 July 2023

This achievement pathway is opened to accommodate students who have outstanding achievements to enter USU and develop educational interests while also being required to continue to excel," explained the Head of the Academic Bureau.

USU PR - 128 participants participated in interviews for new student candidates for the Talenta Excellent Achievement-Based Selection (SBPU Talenta) pathway at Prof. Suhadjibroto Hall, Faculty of Economics and Business, USU.

This activity was held by the Directorate of Educational Development of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) from 5 to 7 July 2023.

SBPU Talenta is a selection process for new USU student candidates with talents/achievements, both academic and non-academic, at the national or international level. Specifically, there are four fields of achievement, including sports, arts, science, and spirituality.

Head of the USU Academic Bureau, Muhammad Zulham, revealed that this pathway was opened as USU's response to accommodate prospective outstanding students to study and develop their talent interests at USU.

This achievement pathway is opened to accommodate students who have outstanding achievements to enter USU and develop educational interests while also being required to continue to excel," explained the Head of the Academic Bureau. "

At the interview stage, prospective students are asked to show their achievements according to their fields, such as Qori as in Islam Religion/Spirituality, practicing martial arts techniques in sports, and others.

This pathway is considered to have fierce competition considering the limited amount of capacity, which is only 0.5% of the total quota of the independent entrance pathway.

The participants who participated in this interview selection had previously succeeded in the file selection. Initially, around 300 participants and only 128 participants advanced to this stage.

Manager of Education Assessment and Development, Umaya Ramadhani Putri Nasution, S.TI, M.Kom, said each study program only provides capacity for one person.

"Initially, there were 300, but only 128 participants were accepted for file selection. Those who are accepted will have one quota per study program," said Umaya.

Umaya hopes that the participants who pass are selected students who can continue to maintain their achievements without putting aside their education or academics.

"Hopefully, it will run smoothly, and the students who graduate, God willing, will be the chosen ones. Academic and non-academic achievements are maintained," he concluded.

The graduation announcement for the SBPU Talenta pathway is scheduled for 14 July. For information, prospective new students for the SBPU Talenta pathway can access the website https://Seleksi-prestasi.usu.ac.id/ to find out more information about the requirements, registration fees, selection process, and announcement.

Author: Renny Julia - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Admission
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara