MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Undergraduate In Entrepreneurship And Master In Management Management Science Collaboration
Undergraduate in Entrepreneurship and Master in Management Management Science Collaboration
Published At
23 May 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Undergraduate in Entrepreneurship and Master in Management Management Science Collaboration
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 23 May 2022

The organization of this webinar is also a form of support to Indonesia as The G20 presidency made the green energy transition its focus.

MEDAN-USU PR: Study Program (Prodi) S-1 Entrepreneurship and Prodi S-2 Science

Management and the Association of Students Department (HMJ) S-2 Faculty of Management Science Economics and Business Universitas Sumatera Utara (FEB USU) collaboration held the Green Economy Webinar on Saturday (4/23/2022). Carrying a theme Creative Human Resources in the Era of Digitalization for Regional Economic Development, This event was attended by 180 participants online.

The organization of this webinar is also a form of support to Indonesia as The G20 presidency made the green energy transition its focus. Also present as Speaker, Head of Medan City Education Department, Admiral Putra Siregar, S.H., MSP., General Chairman of DPC IWAPI Medan City Ade Mora Nasution, and Department Secretary Management, University of Jember Dr. Diana Suliati K Tobing. Also present was the Head of Study Program S1 Entrepreneurship Prof.Dr.Ritha F.Dalimunthe SE.M.Si and Head of S-2 Science Program FEB USU Management Dr. Endang Sulistya Rini SE., M.Si.

In his presentation, the Admiral said that public school students felt more superior compared to those educated in private. Of course, an independent paradigm of learning encourages students to be able to develop excellence, creativity, innovation according to the talents and interests of those students. Therefore, students are encouraged to choose a campus in accordance with their interests and are expected to develop their area.

"In relation to support related to the green economy, we must all be able to explore our resources without damaging how natural the goods industry and services are demanded to be environmentally friendly. Our common concern is to make our human resources become superior and productive agents of change.

Meanwhile, Ade Mora Nasution talked about his experience and related findings on the existence of inequality in the generations x, y, z. He and the Youth Icon Foundation came to over 200 schools around Medan City and found a generation with seven kinds diseases, such as individualism, selfishness, apathy, degeneration of respect for colleagues and parents as well as there is a generation X feels more experienced and Y feels more knowing than google.

"Companies hope to have many human resources who are skilled, tough, and have problem solving skills, and good team work. Therefore I established the Youth Icon Foundation which is engaged in the field of human resource development.”

Entering industry 4.0 there is a lot of workforce reductions that are replaced by use of technology. Many are not ready for the phenomenon. With the presence of society 5.0 should be able to still absorb human labor, in fact it is expected to absorb more labor, not the other way around eliminating human beings at work, ”said Ade Mora.

On the same occasion, Dr. Diana says that learning is needed throughout life. There are three elements of education to create a developed society, namely high student participation rates, quality learning outcomes and quality distribution equitable and inclusive education. The main reason for the low level of participation education among other things, there is still a stigma on parents that it is not necessary schooling to a higher level, especially for girls, as well as lower equality of access to education.

"Change is happening faster because everything can be done online. Because of that we must be able to quickly learn and grow and never stop learning for anyone. Colleges must also be able to create graduates who can solve problems through digitization and also through research. Don't be a new graduate have difficulty getting a job because it is based only on theory alone, ”Diana concluded. (ULC)

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Spesial - Humas

News
Management
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara