MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
BCA Shares Knowledge At USU
BCA Shares Knowledge at USU
Published At
10 May 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
BCA Shares Knowledge at USU
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 10 May 2023

“Our activity today has a very important and strategic meaning to strengthen our vision and prepare plans that play a role in realizing the desired future. This is a rare and valuable opportunity, especially for the students of the Universitas Sumatera Utara, to gain knowledge and knowledge directly from the experts,” said USU Rector.

USU PR - PT Bank Central Asia Tbk (BCA) visited the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) for a public lecture titled “How to Succeed in the Era of Global Disruption” on Tuesday, May 9, 2023. BCA Director Haryanto T. Budiman acted as a speaker in the CSR Bakti BCA activity.

The activity, which was summarized in the BCA Sharing Knowledge program, was opened by the USU Rector, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si. On this occasion, the Rector of USU said that this public lecture was a form of BCA's CSR program that focuses on improving and supporting community education, especially in low-income areas.

The USU Rector also emphasized the importance of the theme raised as an effort by students to face the era of disruption with uncertain dynamics.

“The ongoing VUCA era brings massive dynamics to various aspects of life, especially the economy, where everything moves quickly and cannot be predicted accurately. There is almost no certainty in the long term and permanent conditions in business and other aspects because they are influenced by the acceleration of technology, computing, Artificial Intelligence (AI), and world political forces,” explained the USU Rector.

Furthermore, the Rector said that the BCA public lecture would provide tips and tricks on strengthening vision and making plans to adapt in the era of change.

“Our activity today has a very important and strategic meaning to strengthen our vision and prepare plans that play a role in realizing the desired future. This is a rare and valuable opportunity, especially for the students of the Universitas Sumatera Utara, to gain knowledge and knowledge directly from the experts,” he said.

The public lecture, which was attended by USU students, received great enthusiasm. BCA Director, Haryanto T. Budiman said he was very happy to be able to interact with thousands of USU students.

“I am very happy to be able to interact with students, and earlier, we saw more than 1,000 students attend today's event,” said the director of BCA.

Meanwhile, in this public lecture, the Director of BCA said that the theme discussed touched on how to respond to change. He hopes that this activity will benefit all participants.

“Hopefully, what we do will also be beneficial for students,” he continued.

On the same occasion, BCA Executive Vice President and USU alumna, Hera F. Haryn, advised USU students to build self-competence, integrity, and guts, because these three things are needed in the world of work.

“In my opinion, when we are in the world of work, in the work field, what Mr. Haryanto said is not far from that. So, there are three things about leadership: soft skills, and the last one is, of course, guts. So, hockey also speaks. But the most important thing is how we build self-competence, then we also have to be professionals with integrity, and maybe one more thing, we need guts,” he explained.

For information, USU is the second of five universities in Indonesia visited by BCA in the BCA Sharing Knowledge program.

 

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Public RelationsInterviewee: Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si. - USU RectorPhotographer: Amri Simatupang - Public Relations 

News
Education
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara