MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Universitas Sumatera Utara Announces Prospective Candidates For Board Of Trustees Period 2025-2030
Universitas Sumatera Utara Announces Prospective Candidates for Board of Trustees Period 2025-2030
Published At
14 April 2025
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
Universitas Sumatera Utara Announces Prospective Candidates for Board of Trustees Period 2025-2030
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Monday, 14 April 2025

Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), through the Election Committee for the Board of Trustees (MWA), officially announced the names of prospective MWA candidates for 2025-2030. Of the 37 applicants, 33 were declared to have successfully passed the administrative verification, consisting of 19 prospective MWA candidates from community representatives and 14 prospective MWA candidates from the USU Academic Senate.

 

This was conveyed by the Chairperson of the Election Committee for the USU Board of Trustees (MWA), Dr. Muhammad Anggia Muchtar, ST., MM.IT, in an official release delivered to the media on Sunday (13/4/2025).

 

He further explained that prospective MWA members from the community come from various professional backgrounds, including government circles, academics outside USU, the business world, and professionals. In the initial selection process, the committee has emphasized that prospective candidates from the community are not allowed to come from political parties to ensure the neutrality and independence of the MWA in carrying out its role as a supervisor and determinant of strategic university policies. Meanwhile, 14 prospective candidates from the USU Academic Senate are academic figures with a long track record in higher education and real contributions to USU's academic and institutional progress. This stage is part of a transparent and accountable selection process, in line with the principles of good university governance.

 

Based on the results of the examination of files and administrative completeness, the names of Prospective Candidates for Members of the USU Board of Trustees (MWA) Representatives of the Community for the 2025-2030 Period who have met the requirements as stipulated in MWA Regulation No. 1 of 2022 concerning the Organization and Governance of Universitas Sumatera Utara in conjunction with Academic Senate Regulation No. 1 of 2025 concerning the Procedures for Recruitment, Election, and Proposition of MWA Members, as follows: Abdul Haris, Agus Andrianto, Aminuddin Ma'ruf, Andrew Bingei Purba Siboro, Eddy Johan Lubis, Fadhullah, Harmen Saputra, Helman Sembiring, Irmansyah Batubara, Mahmud Nazly Harahap, Mohammad Abdul Ghani, Muhammad Joni, Musa Idishah, Nixon Lambok Pahotan Napitupulu, Nurdin Lubis, Ruruh Aris Setya Wibawa, Tosim Gurning, Wirman and Zulkarnain. Meanwhile, the Prospective Candidates for Members of the Board of Trustees (MWA) for the Academic Senate Representatives are as follows: Erlina, Erman Munir, Hasim Purba, Husni Thamrin, Ikhwanuddin Nasution, Indra Chahaya, Inke Nadia Diniyanti Lubis, Maria, Muhammad Yamin, Nazaruddin, Seri Maulina, Solahuddin Nasution, Thamrin and Zaid Perdana Nasution.

 

Prospective MWA Members as Academic Senate Representatives will then be determined and elected as Prospective MWA Members of USU at the USU SA plenary session, Thursday, April 17, 2025. Prospective MWA Members as Community Representatives will then be determined and elected as Prospective MWA Members as Community Representatives at the USU Academic Senate (SA) Plenary Session, Tuesday, April 22, 2025. In accordance with Article 9 Paragraph (5) of USU SA Regulation Number 1 of 2025, Prospective MWA Members who resign must make a written statement on Rp. 10,000 stamped papers are submitted to the Election Committee no later than 2 (two) days before the USU SA Plenary Session.

 

Prospective USU MWA Members of the Academic Senate Representative can submit resignation documents online via SA email: senat.akademik@usu.ac.id, no later than Sunday, April 20, 2025 at 23.59 WIB or delivered directly to the USU SA Secretariat at Jalan Universitas No. 36 USU Campus, no later than Sunday, April 20, 2025, at 16.00 WIB.

 

The Board of Trustees is an important organ in the governance structure of a legal entity in higher education institutions. As the highest strategic policy-making body at the university, the MWA has a primary role in determining the direction of long-term policies and overseeing the implementation of higher education autonomy as a whole. The presence of credible, integrity-based and competent MWA members is crucial to ensure the continuity of professional and meritocratic university governance.

 

The Board of Trustees (MWA) of Universitas Sumatera Utara consists of 21 members, with the following composition: Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology (Mendiktisaintek), Rector, 8 (eight) representatives from the Academic Senate, and 11 (eleven) representatives from the community. Of the eleven community representatives, 1 (one) person is the Governor, who is appointed ex officio. In contrast, the other 10 (ten) people are selected through a selection process by the USU Academic Senate.

 

In line with that, 8 (eight) MWA representatives from the Academic Senate will also be selected through an internal election mechanism implemented by the USU Academic Senate, in accordance with applicable provisions. This process aims to ensure credible, proportional, and committed representation towards the progress of university governance.

 

The committee has set the schedule for the election as follows: The election of the MWA from the USU SA Representative element will be held on April 17, 2025 and the election of the MWA from the Community Representative element will be held on April 22, 2025.

By holding this inclusive and professional election process, Universitas Sumatera Utara hopes that the best figures will be elected who are able to make the university a world-class higher education institution, make real contributions to regional and national development, and be responsive to global challenges in the fields of education, research, and innovation. For further official information, the public can access Universitas Sumatera Utara website at https://sa.usu.ac.id/penjaringanmwa .

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara