MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Agriculture
Master's Program In Animal Husbandry Science
Master Program
Animal Husbandry Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Master's Program in Animal Husbandry Science is a study program that focuses on teaching the science of raising, managing, developing technology, and marketing livestock and livestock products. The program covers various aspects of science, including agricultural socioeconomics, nutrition, and livestock products. Since its establishment in 1981, the program has successfully produced quality graduates and skilled livestock experts in various parts of Indonesia.

Managed by qualified lecturers and experts in their fields, the USU Master's Program in Animal Husbandry is committed to presenting an integrated curriculum and the best teaching materials to guide students to become skilled and innovative individuals in the livestock sector. Graduates of this study program will earn a Master of Animal Science (M.Pt.) degree upon successful completion of this study program.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

magister_peternakan@usu.ac.id

Master's Program in Animal Husbandry Science

Accredited Excellent

1154/SK/BAN-PT/Ak.Ppj/M/IV/2024

Vision of Master's Program in Animal Husbandry Science

Master of Animal Science Study Program that is superior and able to compete at the global level in the development of integrative animal husbandry based on plantation and agricultural resources in 2021

Mission of Master's Program in Animal Husbandry Science

Superior

Organizing education and teaching in the Master of Animal Science Study Program that is superior, competitive and able to develop integrative animal science based on plantation and agricultural resources.

Innovative

Develop innovative programs in the implementation of research and community service that can support the development of knowledge and technology in the field of integrative animal husbandry based on plantation and agricultural resources.

Research and Service

Aligning between education and research and public service to be applied to the community and published scientifically in the field of animal husbandry.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Livestock Production and Breeding Science

Feed Formulation and Nutrition Science

Livestock Products Technology Science

Livestock Social and Economic Sciences

Forage Science

Contact Us
Master's Program in Animal Husbandry Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Dr. A. Sofian No. 3, Kampus USU, Padang Bulan, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20155

(+62) - 618213181

magister_peternakan@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara