MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Inauguration Of Cardiologist At FK USU: Pride And New Hope
Inauguration of Cardiologist at FK USU: Pride and New Hope
Published At
04 September 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
Inauguration of Cardiologist at FK USU: Pride and New Hope
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Wednesday, 04 September 2024

“We hope that these six new doctors will maintain the good name of our University alma mater, and we hope that later, please come back because this is indeed our home, said the Director of the USU Directorate of Education Development”

USU PR - The Faculty of Medicine of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (FK USU) carried out the inauguration of six Heart and Vascular Specialists. The inauguration took place at Le Polonia Hotel Medan, on Saturday (24/08/2024).

Director of the Directorate of Education Development of USU, Ir. Ikhsan Siregar, ST, M.Eng, through his speech congratulated the six new heart and blood vessel specialists who had been inaugurated. He acknowledged that their educational journey was full of ups and downs, so this inauguration was a moment of happiness for all parties, including their families.

“We hope that these six new doctors will maintain the good name of our University alma mater, and we hope that later, please come back because this is indeed our home,” Ikhsan said.

In line with that, the Head of the USU FK Heart and Vascular Specialist Study Program, Dr. dr. Cut Aryfa Andra M.Ked (Cardio), Sp.JP, FIHA expressed his gratitude and pride for the success of six doctors in completing their education. He hopes that this good cooperation can continue in the future.

“Today, we would also like to express our deepest gratitude to Haji Adam Malik Hospital Medan and CPL Busur Hospital for all the excellent facilities provided to our students,” said Dr. Aryfa.

In addition, Dr. dr. Cut Aryfa Andra M.Ked(Cardio), Sp.JP, FIHA, also highlighted the academic achievements of the six doctors, especially in terms of scientific publications and presentations. She expressed pride that most of them had completed more publications and presentations than required, with some of them even making more than five presentations at national and international forums.

“The majority of those graduating today completed far more than what is required. Some even made more than five national and international presentations,” he said proudly.

Meanwhile, the Head of the Department of Heart and Vascular Diseases FK USU, dr. Anggia Chairuddin Lubis M.Ked (Cardio), Sp.JP (K), emphasized the importance of maintaining the spirit of togetherness that has been established during education. He explained that this education requires great energy and sacrifice, but the process is needed to shape doctors into specialists who are ready to face challenges in society.

“We congratulate the six new fellows who have completed their education. This is a highly anticipated moment after three and a half or four years of challenging education,” said Dr. Anggia.

In closing, Dr. Anggia Chairuddin Lubis M.Ked(Cardio), Sp.JP(K) expressed her hope that these six heart and blood vessel specialists can make a significant contribution to the medical world, especially in areas where there is still a shortage of heart specialists, especially in dealing with cardiovascular disease, which is one of the major challenges in the world of health today.

“Heart and blood vessel specialists are still very much needed, especially in areas that are less affordable. So, don't just stay in Medan, but also consider serving in other places that are more in need,” he advised.

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara