MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Agriculture
Undergraduate Program In Food Technology
Undergraduate Program
Food Technology
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Undergraduate Program in Food Technology is a study program that focuses on processing, preserving, and providing food by applying scientific and technological principles. The goal is to create food products that are safe, high quality, and of high nutritional value. Food Technology covers various aspects, from product formulation, processing techniques, to innovation in creating new foods. With excellent accreditation (A), this study program emphasizes the importance of the food industry in meeting consumers' needs for delicious, safe, and nutritious food.

Supported by qualified and nationally certified teaching staff, the program has a strong commitment to produce skilled and responsible food technology graduates for the community and country. Graduates of the Undergraduate Program in Food Technology Program have broad career prospects, including in the field of research & development and as food quality experts. Upon completion of this study program, students will be awarded a Bachelor of Food Technology (S.T.P.) degree in recognition of their expertise and qualifications in the field of food technology.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

itp@usu.ac.id

Undergraduate Program in Food Technology

Accredited A

No. 1996/SK/BAN-PT/Ak-PPJ/S/III/2022

Vision of Undergraduate Program in Food Technology

Becoming a leading Food Technology Study Program in the development of science, technology, and human resources to support national food sovereignty, which includes the fields of food crops and plantations in a global order in 2039.

Mission of Undergraduate Program in Food Technology

Education

Organizing education and teaching that can produce Bachelor of Food Technology with STAR characters and get international recognition.

Research

Conducting and developing innovative Food Technology research in the field of TALENTA at national and international scope.

Community Service

Providing expert services in food technology to support national food security in the food crop and plantation agriculture sectors, especially utilizing local food ingredients.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Food Chemistry and Analysis

Microbiology and Food Safety

Food Process Engineering

Food Science

Food Biochemistry and Nutrition

Contact Us
Undergraduate Program in Food Technology
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Dr. A. Sofian No. 3, USU Padang Bulan Campus, Medan Baru, Medan City, North Sumatra, 20155

+62618213181

itp@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara