MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Computer Science And Information Technology
Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

fasilkomti@usu.ac.id

The Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology (Fasilkom-TI) of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) was established in 2011 as a unit responsible for higher education in computer science and information technology at USU. Fasilkom-TI USU offers various programs, including the Undergraduate Program in Computer Science, the Undergraduate Program in Information Technology, the Master's Program in Informatics Engineering, the Master's Program in Data Science and Artificial Intelligence, and the Doctoral Program in Computer Science. We consistently develop an educational curriculum that aligns with the rapid development of technology, with a commitment to produce graduates who can compete globally in their fields. Our teaching staff consists of experts with integrity and national teaching certification who are ready to assist students in their academic journey.

Visit Faculty Page

Computer Science

Undergraduate Program

Information Technology

Undergraduate Program

Informatics Engineering

Master Program

Data Science and Artificial Intelligence

Master Program

Computer Science

Doctoral Program

Vision of Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology

Becoming an organizer of research-based higher education in the field of computer science/informatics and information technology that is adaptive, collaborative, and creative, as well as internationally qualified until 2022.

Mission of Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology

BINTANG

Organize Fasilkom-TI with a good governance in order to support the formation of an independent USU.

Partnerships

Prepare graduates to be ready to compete with the global community in the fields of Computer Science and Information Technology research.

Education

Develop the programs in Fasilkom-TI to be able to improve the education and research in the fields of Computer Science and Information Technology.

Research

Organize a number of groups in the field of expertise and research in computer science and information technology and Strive for the realization of Fasilkom-TI as a center for research, training and development of services in the fields of computer science and information technology.

Service

Develop innovative science and technology that can contribute to the better quality of people's lives in the framework of Tropical Science and Medicine,Agroindustry, Local Wisdom, Energy [sustainable], Natural Resources [biodiversity, forest, marine, mine, tourism], Technology [appropriate] and Arts [ethnic] (TALENTA) of USU.

Contact Us
Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jalan Universitas No. 9A Kampus USU Padang Bulan, Medan Baru, Medan, Indonesia 20155

061-8222129

fasilkomti@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara