MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Students Hold National Seminar, Encouraging Youth To Be Active In Energy Transition
USU Students Hold National Seminar, Encouraging Youth to be Active in Energy Transition
Published At
25 September 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
USU Students Hold National Seminar, Encouraging Youth to be Active in Energy Transition
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Wednesday, 25 September 2024

“We hope that USU students can be pioneers in presenting innovation and education related to renewable energy,” Terry said.

USU PR - The Society of Renewable Energy (SRE) of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held the SRE Fest 2024 National Seminar as part of the Awarding Day Competition of NRE Festival 2024. The theme “Indonesia Emas 2045: Youth Empowerment accelerating Energy Transition Greener Indonesia” aims to involve USU students in energy transition efforts in Indonesia. It took place at the USU Auditorium on Thursday (12/09/2024).

 

The theme of this seminar was chosen to encourage USU students to become pioneers in contributing more to the energy transition in Indonesia and aims to disseminate innovation and education to the public and produce output in the form of a book containing a collection of innovations from competition participants.

 

Terry Alwavi Ginting, President of the Society of Renewable Energy (SRE) USU, explained that the main objective of the seminar was to raise awareness among students and the wider community about the importance of new and renewable energy in facing the challenges of climate change. In addition, this seminar also aims to encourage the younger generation, especially students, to actively contribute to accelerating the energy transition in Indonesia. Terry also hopes that USU students can become pioneers in presenting innovation and education related to renewable energy. The results of the innovative work of the competition participants will be compiled in a book that can be a reference for the community.

 

“We hope that USU students can be pioneers in presenting innovation and education related to renewable energy,” said Terry.

 

As a concrete form of commitment in educating the community, the USU SRE team has carried out various activities such as visiting schools to provide an understanding of renewable energy.

 

Firsal Mutyara, Head of KADIN North Sumatra, who was present as a guest speaker, emphasized the importance of energy transition in the face of increasingly serious climate change. He also said that the energy transition will not only benefit the environment but can also boost economic growth. He emphasized that students have a very important role in supporting the energy transition, so they need to learn new technologies and develop innovative solutions to overcome future energy challenges.

 

“Let us create a more sustainable future together,” Firsal hoped.

 

This seminar is expected to be the first step in accelerating the energy transition in Indonesia and inspiring the younger generation to create a more sustainable future.

News
SDGs 4
SDGs
SDGs 7
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara