MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Vice Rector I: Lecturers Must Help New Students To Recognize The MBKM Learning System
USU Vice Rector I: Lecturers Must Help New Students to Recognize the MBKM Learning System
Published At
10 August 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Vice Rector I: Lecturers Must Help New Students to Recognize the MBKM Learning System
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 10 August 2021

USU PUBLIC RELATION-MEDAN: Vice Rector I of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Dr. Edy Ikhsan, SH, MH, invites faculty leaders, study programs and lecturers within USU to assist new USU students in understanding and recognizing their new environment, especially the organization and the structure of universities, as well as the learning system within the framework of the Independent Learning Campus Independent (MBKM) which was only implemented at the beginning of the 2021 academic year.

This was conveyed by him as a coach in a routine meeting on Monday (8/9/2021) which took place in the courtyard of the USU Central Administration Bureau Building. The hybrid event (online and offline) was attended by elements of university leaders, the Board of Trustees, the Academic Senate, the Board of Professors of the Universitas Sumatera Utara, the Rector and Vice Rector, the Secretary of the University, the Expert Staff of the Rector, the head of the institution/UPT/Unit. Work/Head of Bureau/Head of Division at the Universitas Sumatera Utara, the Head of USU's Corps of Civil Servant of Indonesian Republic (KORPRI) and the educational staff of the USU Central Administration Bureau.

 

Furthermore, USU Vice Rector I also reminded that these new students can be encouraged to increase their awareness of the nation, state and love for the homeland within themselves. Also understand the importance of education to be taken, character education and competency development for nation building and be able to apply it in everyday life.

“One week from today, we will start the new academic year 2021/2022. The year we are still projected to go through the same as the one we have been through and in the academic year and we are about to leave, with various characteristics, namely division of work from home and from the office (WFH and WFO), lectures, community service activities, meetings, scientific workshops and online training. , restrictions/tightening of the entry and exit of people in the campus environment and news about the illness, recovery and death of our colleagues due to the Covid 19 outbreak," said Dr. Edy Ikhsan, starting his speech. 

 

The New Academic Year 2021/2021 which will start on August 16, 2021 will present 8,653 young talents from 15 Faculties, with the composition of National Selection Test of State University (SNMPTN) pathway: 2,131 students, Collective Selection Test of State University (SBMPTN) as many as 2,463 students, Self-Sufficient Selection Test (SMM) as many as 2,889 students and (Selection Test of Diploma Student (SPMPD) as many as 1,170. The students came from 49 study programs at the undergraduate level and 14 study programs from the Diploma III level.

"We will welcome the 8,653 students of the 2021 batch of students virtually in a series of New Student Campus Life Introduction Activities (PKKMB) on August 12 and 13, 2021. The majority of the 8,653 new students (except students from the Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry) are the first batch to enroll whom will experience the deconstruction curriculum of Independent Learning and Independent Campus,” said USU Vice Rector I.

On that occasion, he also gave high appreciation to all study programs that have completed curriculum deconstruction as the main prerequisite for starting the learning process in the MBKM Scheme. 

“This is our first challenging experience in the midst of criticism of the idea of ​​presenting 3 Semester Learning Rights outside study programs as regulated in the regulation of the ministry of education and culture (Permendikbud) No. 3 of 2020 concerning National Higher Education Standards. It is undeniable, as when a policy is issued there will be resistance in various forms. Our responses vary and are often wrong because we think that this freedom of learning can be detrimental to lecturers. One form of resistance comes from our fear that the study program will no longer teach core competencies,” he said. 

 

On the other hand, added Dr. Edy Ikhsan, the lecturers also feel that the class will be empty because students choose to study outside the study program even outside the campus. “This MBKM actually opens up opportunities for us to improve our study program and ourselves to be better. The study program will become more open and ready to receive important inputs from the real world. With this MBKM, lecturers are no longer just lecturers of study programs. By offering the courses we are capable of which we design very well and are very attractive with advantages that other universities do not have, we will be able to sell our courses to students outside the study program, outside the university, even outside Indonesia, "he concluded,  closing the remarks. (RJ/©ULC) 

 

Author: Renny Julia Harahap - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - PR

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara