MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Deputy Minister Of Manpower Gives Public Lecture At USU
Deputy Minister of Manpower gives public lecture at USU
Published At
25 September 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Deputy Minister of Manpower gives public lecture at USU
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 25 September 2023

This theme is very relevant to provide education to all participants," said Prof. Opim.

HUMAS USU-The Faculty of Vocational Studies at Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held a public lecture with the theme Preparation for Entering the World of Work and Industry in the framework of the 1st Anniversary of the Faculty of Vocational Studies at the USU Student Center, on Thursday (14/09/2023).

USU Vice Rector IV for Information, Planning, and Development, Prof. Dr. Opim Salim Sitompul, M.Sc. representing the USU Rector, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin S.Sos., M.Si., stated that the theme raised in the public lecture is very relevant to educate students, given the dynamic and competitive work environment.

"This theme is very relevant to provide education to all participants," said Prof. Opim.

Prof. Dr. Opim Salim Sitompul, M.Sc., mentioned that interpersonal skills such as communicating and working together are very important and necessary for USU graduates later in the world of work.

"In addition, you also need to understand the importance of interpersonal skills," he said.

Vice Chancellor IV also explained the importance of having a vision and goals in planning a career and achieving long-term success. He added that dedication, hard work, and mental resilience are key to having a successful career.

"I want to remind you all that success in the world of work also requires dedication, hard work, and mental resilience," he explained.

After that, Vice Rector IV expressed his hope that students could find inspiration and insight related to preparation for entering the world of work. He reminded students not to be afraid to dream big and take risks to achieve their dreams.

"I hope this public lecture will provide additional inspiration and insight," he hoped.

Deputy Minister of Manpower, Ir. Afriansyah Noor, M.Si., IPU, as the guest speaker explained that students of the Faculty of Vocational Studies are certainly targeted by the government to be work-ready. Therefore, it is the duty of the state to try to get them job skills. He added that students can get 2 diplomas, namely a diploma issued by USU and a certification diploma.

"Vocationalization is certainly very targeted by the government so that these children have skills," he explained.

Afriansyah Noor, M.Si., IPU, mentioned the extraordinary enthusiasm of the students in attending the public lecture. According to him, USU as the favorite campus in Sumatra has produced many competent graduates who work in the industrial world to become state officials.

"USU has value, has competence and many of its children work in the industrial world," he said.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Education
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara