MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU And USAID Hold Campus Integrity Roadshow
USU and USAID Hold Campus Integrity Roadshow
Published At
01 March 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU and USAID Hold Campus Integrity Roadshow
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 01 March 2023

The organization of this activity is a form of support, goodwill, and commitment of Universitas Sumatera Utara to prevent corrupt practices in the university environment, as well as providing a wider and free space for the academic community to actively participate in observing indications of the presence of various opportunities and potential for corrupt practices," The Vice Rector III explained.

In collaboration with Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), USU PR- USAID Indonesia organized a "Campus Integrity Roadshow" program. Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan S.Si M.SI. Apt., Vice Chancellor III for Research, Community Service, and Partnership USU, officially launched the event on Wednesday (02/15/2023) at the Academic Senate Room GBPA USU.

This program is a continuation of the Campus Leadership Integrity Forum, established by the KPK and supported by the Ministries of Education, Culture, Research, Technology, and Religion.

Vice Rector III of USU stated that organizing this activity demonstrated USU's good faith and commitment to eliminating corrupt behaviors in the campus environment. The USU Faculty of Nursing's recent ZI WBK title and the bureaucratic reform of university governance that promotes transparency and efficiency are only two of the numerous manifestations of USU's commitment to integrity.

"The organization of this activity is a form of support, goodwill, and commitment of Universitas Sumatera Utara to prevent corrupt practices in the university environment, as well as providing a wider and free space for the academic community to actively participate in observing indications of the presence of various opportunities and potential for corrupt practices," Prof. Poppy explained in her remarks.

During the roadshow, which was divided into two sections, anti-corruption education materials were distributed.

Maralus Panggabean, Inspectorate General of the Ministry of Education, Culture, Research, and Technology of the Republic of Indonesia, presented the first content online. Aida Ratna Zulaiha, Director of Education Network of KPK RI, and others followed.

Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan S.Si M.SI Apt. hopes that this momentum can be used to hold discussions to strengthen academic integrity.

"This event offers a great chance for all of you to receive comprehensive knowledge and information, allowing you to be more concerned, sensitive, and aware of any initiative and possibility for corruption, no matter how slight it is. Also, educate oneself to be willing to commit to becoming an anti-corruption individual, "He further stated.

At the same time, Rifqi Sjarief Assegaf, Director of the DJGR Program (Democratic Justice Governance and Regionalization), sees campus integrity as a critical concern. This activity is KEMITRAAN's invitation to various stakeholders to pay attention to concerns of integrity in the education sector, particularly universities.

"Therefore, the Campus Integrity Roadshow is just a starting point for us to instruct and ask many stakeholders to collaborate on the problem of enhancing campus integrity. Following that, we will conduct several events, including inviting partnerships and campuses, "explained the Director of the DGJR Program.

The DGJR Program Director appreciated USU's excitement in supporting this endeavor. He hopes that USU will continue cooperating on campus integrity and include student support in this effort.

"We hope that in the future, not only the campus but also the students at USU will be able to work with partnerships to run this program because it is not just our partnership with the campus that is important, but also the partnership between the students and the campus, since strengthening integrity cannot be accomplished on the campus without the support of its students," he explained.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Collaboration
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara