MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Ganjar Pranowo Gives Laptop And Bike, USU Students Are Excited
Ganjar Pranowo Gives Laptop and Bike, USU Students Are Excited
Published At
17 January 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Ganjar Pranowo Gives Laptop and Bike, USU Students Are Excited
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 17 January 2022

Ganjar asked three students what they would do in welcoming Indonesia Gold 2045 according to President Jokowi's vision. He was impressed by the answers from the three students and immediately gave two laptops and a bicycle.

USU PR - Central Java Governor Ganjar Pranowo made three Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) students excited on the stage of the Golden Indonesia Conference which was held at the USU Auditorium, Sunday (1/9/2022) because the PDIP politician gave free laptops and bicycles.

The gift started when Ganjar Pranowo, who was requested to be a resource person at the Indonesia Gold Conference, held a presentation session via zoom. Before starting, he asked the USU students who were present to go up to the stage.

The three students who first made to the stage were then asked to introduce themselves, they were Sri Ayu Ramadhani from the Faculty of Cultural Sciences, Indra Utama from the Faculty of Social and Political Sciences and Majesty Fakhrur Reza S Ritonga from the Faculty of Forestry.

"The important thing is to be brave first. Golden Indonesia must start with the young generation who are brave," said Ganjar praising the three students.

Ganjar then asked what they would do in welcoming Indonesia Gold 2045 according to President Jokowi's vision. He was impressed by the answers from the three students and immediately gave two laptops and a bicycle.

After being given a laptop and bicycle, the three students immediately took a selfie with Ganjar who put on a witty face and broke the laughter of the participants.

In his presentation, Ganjar Pranowo assessed that President Joko Widodo's Vision of Indonesia Gold 2045 must be prepared early on by the millennial generation. These students are the nation’s leaders of Indonesia's golden year in 2045.

"We will become a country with strong economic strength, a wide market and very rapid infrastructure progress to support the welfare of the people," said this humorous man.

At the end of the presentation, Ganjar Pranowo also promised to come to USU. "I also promise to visit USU later. Yes, Mr. Rector, I owe you an attendance that must be paid off. Right now we do it via zoom," said Ganjar to USU Rector Dr Muryanto Amin who witnessed Ganjar's presentation to the end.

USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin welcomed Ganjar Pranowo's wish to come to USU. The Rector also promised to deliver tanjak and songket which are souvenirs for Ganjar Pranowo directly to Semarang.

"Before Pak Ganjar goes to USU, I will visit Semarang to give tanjak and songket from these students," said the Rector, who was greeted warmly by Ganjar Pranowo.

The Golden Indonesia Conference entitled Grand Design Towards a Golden Indonesia 2045: Reviewing President Jokowi's Vision for an Advanced Indonesia initiated by the USU Student Administration (Pema) itself went lively.

The Minister of SOE Erick Thohir was present as the keynote speaker at the event which was attended by approximately 1,000 participants. In his presentation, the Minister of SOEs said that in achieving Indonesia Gold 2045, Indonesia had to make a lot of preparations, one of which was in terms of increasing the potential of Human Resources (HR).

"One of Indonesia's challenges is to rely too much on Natural Resources (SDA)," he said.

According to Erick Thohir, if Indonesia wants to achieve economic growth in accordance with the Golden Indonesia Vision, humans must become the center of innovation with a knowledge-based economy. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Campus Life
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara