MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Rector Collaborates With Journalist Alumni To Establish Press Institution
USU Rector Collaborates with Journalist Alumni to Establish Press Institution
Published At
16 January 2024
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Rector Collaborates with Journalist Alumni to Establish Press Institution
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 16 January 2024

To support the creation of a competency testing institution. It's one of the ideas we can pursue. From that institution, I believe we can also provide abilities such as short classes needed for journalist colleagues, especially media peers, related to improving skills and understanding current developments," explained Prof. Mury.

USU PR- The Office of Public Relations, Promotion, and Protocol of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held a Gathering with Journalist Alumni themed "Good Relation, Ultimate Reputation" at Sajian Bhinneka Medan on Thursday (12/28/2023).

This gathering, which also served as a meet-and-greet and lunch, aimed to strengthen the relationship between alumni and their alma mater. In this regard, USU collaborated with alumni working in journalism to exchange opinions and thoughts about media developments.

USU Rector, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., stated that he would invite alumni to establish a press institution for journalists, where this institution would discuss the improvement of skills in journalism.

“To support the creation of a competency testing institution. It's one of the ideas we can pursue. From that institution, I believe we can also provide abilities such as short classes needed for journalist colleagues, especially media peers, related to improving skills and understanding current developments,” explained Prof. Mury.

The USU Rector also mentioned that nowadays, people are more often accessing information through social media and websites, making USU a transparent source for the public.

"It turns out that Gen Z gets news from the web and online sources. Therefore, the pattern format for these university students is very important due to changes," he added.

Nirwan Sukartara, S.H., M.Kn., one of the USU alumni from Harian Analisa, highly appreciated the event because, through USU Public Relations, they could accommodate alumni who became journalists. This event also provided an opportunity to give input on establishing an institution in journalism.

"An institution, for example, can enhance the competence of journalists in North Sumatra. So, from its enthusiasts, these USU alumni journalists can create comprehensive movements or contribute through activities such as training or collaborations in other areas," he expressed.

In line with that, Jonris Purba, S.Sos., from Republik Merdeka Online, also appreciated and strongly supported the collaboration between journalists and USU in information development, allowing the public to access that information.

"And I think it's because of his openness to his willingness to embrace all groups, including journalists. Perhaps, in quotation marks, journalists so far have been perceived by many as not needing to be associated, but it turns out he understands the importance of journalists as individuals who are always involved in information for the progress of USU," he said.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
SDGs
SDGs 9
SDGs 16
SDGs 17
Alumni & Career
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara