MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Computer Science And Information Technology
Master's Program In Data Science And Artificial Intelligence
Master Program
Data Science and Artificial Intelligence
Universitas Sumatera Utara

As an advanced study program after the Undergraduate Programs in Computer Science & Information Technology, the Master's Program in Data Science and Artificial Intelligence of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) focuses on developing its students' capabilities in two specific areas, namely data science and artificial intelligence. Data science is a discipline that combines knowledge in a field with skills in programming, mathematics, and statistics, aiming to extract information or knowledge from data. Meanwhile, artificial intelligence focuses on solving problems related to human cognitive functions, such as machine learning, problem solving, and pattern recognition, which are then applied in technology.

Supported by experts with international expertise and backed by an integrated curriculum, we have a deep commitment to prepare our students to take on the role of technopreneurs and IT experts who excel in their fields and can compete in the national and international markets. Graduates of our program have great opportunities for careers as data scientists and artificial intelligence developers.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

dsai@usu.ac.id

Master's Program in Data Science and Artificial Intelligence

Accredited Very Good

No. 006/SK/LAM-INFOKOM/Ak.P/M/IV/2023

Vision of Master's Program in Data Science and Artificial Intelligence

To become a leading master’s study program in the field of data science and artificial intelligence that produces competent graduates with global competitiveness and is recognized at the international level by 2024.

Mission of Master's Program in Data Science and Artificial Intelligence

Curricula Development

To develop new specialised curricula and an innovative M.Sc. programme on Data Science and Artificial Intelligence, thus helping build the capacity of the Asian partner countries’ (PC) HEIs, improve the level of competencies and skills offered, and address the existing absence of a similar programme.

Cooperation

To promote cooperation, exchange of know-how and good practices in Αsia between EU and PC HEIs.

Synergy with Industry

Establish viable synergies and links with the regional IT Industry in order to address their needs in specialised personnel in DS&AI, training needs and enhance the employability of DS&AI graduates.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Artificial Intelligence

Data Science

Contact Us
Master's Program in Data Science and Artificial Intelligence
Universitas Sumatera Utara

E Building, Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology, Jalan Universitas No. 9, Medan - 20155.

+62 - 618222129

dsai@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara