MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Internationalization Needs Support And Active Role Of Alumni
USU Internationalization Needs Support and Active Role of Alumni
Published At
30 November 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Internationalization Needs Support and Active Role of Alumni
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 30 November 2021

One of the indicators determined by world rating agencies is employer reputation. The value of employer reputation to boost USU's international ranking is 20 percent. The form of employer reputation is the perception of graduate users, the perception of users of scientific products. How USU graduates are able to answer industry challenges, have superior quality to be able to compete at the global level.

USU PR - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Internationalization Program which is targeted to penetrate the 500 QS World University Rankings requires full support from alumni. The role of alumni in expanding networks and strengthening USU's reputation in the industrial world is an additional capital in the realization of this long-term program.

USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos, M.Si., in his remarks during the World University Program: Employer Reputation event at Grand City Hall, Saturday (11/20/2021) night, said that USU was climbing the ranks of the world's top campuses. USU's position in the world rankings is now 1200+ with a target in the next few years to penetrate the 500th ranking according to the target of the Ministry of Education, Culture, Research and Technology (Kemendikbud, Ristek).

One of the indicators determined by world rating agencies is employer reputation. The value of employer reputation to boost USU's international ranking is 20 percent. The form of employer reputation is the perception of graduate users, the perception of users of scientific products. How USU graduates are able to answer industry challenges, have superior quality to be able to compete at the global level.

"User perceptions of graduates must be filled out by externals, not lecturers or employees. Therefore, alumni who currently occupy manager level positions or even company leaders and CEOs must prioritize USU graduates to form a good perception of employees who are USU alumni," said the Rector in front of the alumni who were presented in a friendly atmosphere.

The Rector also emphasized that he would fully support the programs of the USU Alumni Association (IKA) to synergize with university programs. USU is currently laying the groundwork for change on all fronts. Infrastructure improvements to bureaucratic reforms are currently underway.

"We, as university leaders, are committed to transforming for a better direction. Internally, trust us. However, fathers, mothers, brothers, sisters, brothers and sisters of USU alumni, help us in external affairs. Help us to expand and strengthen the network," asked the Rector, which was greeted with applause from the alumni.

Chairman of the Central Executive Board (PP) of USU IKA Romo Muhammad Syafi'i, who was present that night complete with his staff, appreciated the step of USU Rector Dr Muryanto Amin who picked up the ball and took the hands of alumni to support the program he had launched.

"As alumni, we are rightly called to support the rector's programs. I as the Chair of the USU PP IKA will support and play an active role in campus programs. As the administrator of the alumni association organization, I also appeal to all USU alumni in various parts of the world to hand in hand, strengthen ties of friendship and kinship so that the USU alumni network will be more beneficial for USU alumni themselves and for USU institutionally," he said.

Father Muhammad Syafi'i also responded positively to the WCU program, especially in the field of employer reputation by placing an administrator who would bridge the relationship between USU and USU's IKA PP. This program, according to Romo, is a positive first step to revitalize and raise the spirit of alumni to love their beloved alma mater.

"I also personally know the Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin. The impression I get is that he is a humble person. Because of his humble attitude, this young rector, God willing, will have success," said the alumni of the USU Faculty of Law.

The chairman of USU's World Class University (WCU), Prof. Dr. Eng Himsar Ambarita, explained that the meeting was a socialization and event to get closer between USU and its alumni. "After this event, USU will intensively greet the alumni and continue to strengthen the alumni database," he said.

Prof Himsar said that the USU WCU program would be successful with the support of all parties. Alumni are also the key to success in this program. He explained, to enter the 500 World Class University (WCU) ranking, there are several criteria or indicators that must be considered.

"First, academic reputation is 40%, employer reputation (10%), faculty student ratio (20%), Citation per faculty (20%), international faculty (5%) and international students (5%)," he said.

Prof Himsar explained that USU will continue to maintain contact with alumni via email. He also hopes that alumni can fill out surveys sent by the world's top campus ranking agencies properly, so that USU's employer reputation gets the maximum score.

The event was attended by USU Vice Rector II M Arifin Nasution, SSos, MSP, Vice Rector III Dr Poppy Anjelisa Z Hasibuan, SSi, MSi, Apt, Vice Rector IV Prof Dr Opim Salim Sitompul, MSc, Chairman of PD IKA USU North Sumatra Tengku Erry Nuradi and the management of the USU Faculty IKA as well as the deans were closed with music entertainment and group photos. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara