MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Socialization Of PDLN Permit To Strengthen Internationalization
Socialization of PDLN Permit to Strengthen Internationalization
Published At
26 January 2024
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Socialization of PDLN Permit to Strengthen Internationalization
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 26 January 2024

“International cooperation can make a positive contribution in terms of research innovation, publications, development, as well as the exchange of knowledge and other much-needed information", explained Prof. Poppy.

USU PR - The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held a Socialization of Regulations and Permit Processing Flow related to Foreign Service Travel and Cooperation Reporting. It took place in the 8th Floor Hall, Digital Learning Center Building (DLCB) USU, on Thursday (25/01/2024).

PDLN and international cooperation are an integral part of USU's efforts to improve quality, visibility, and engagement at the global level. Through overseas business trips, USU can build a wider network, establish more intense cooperation and communication and gain valuable experience that can advance USU's mission and vision.

In her remarks, Vice Rector III for Research, Community Service, and Cooperation of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan, S.Si., M.Si., Apt. stated that this socialization aims to provide an understanding based on applicable regulations, regarding PDLN management procedures and the importance of reporting every international cooperation carried out, both faculties, study programs and other work units.

“International cooperation can make a positive contribution in terms of research innovation, publications, development, as well as the exchange of knowledge and other information that is needed,” explained Prof. Poppy.

In reporting cooperation, transparency is key. Therefore, Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan, S.Si., M.Si., Apt. emphasized that through accurate and timely reporting, every achievement and international cooperation carried out will get the appropriate appreciation. In addition, through this reporting, trust can be built and motivate the entire team to continue to creatively innovate and collaborate.

“Hopefully, all work units, especially work unit leaders and all study programs, will understand better and follow the directions that have just been given,” Prof. Poppy appealed.

Yayat Hendayana, S.S., M.Si as Head of the Public Relations and Cooperation Working Team at the Directorate General of Higher Education, Research and Technology, explained that an important requirement for PDLN licensing is an invitation letter, in accordance with the rules submitted by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of State Secretariat. Furthermore, there must be a clear schedule, which will be mentioned in the SP Setneg (State Secretariat Approval Letter), then last but not least is to make a TOR (Term of Reference).

“When the file is complete, the USU PDLN operator must submit it to the State Secretariat's Foreign Service Travel Information System (SIMPEL), so that we can issue a recommendation letter, then we can make sure that the State Secretariat SP will come out,” Yayat explained.

Muhammad Irhash Aliya, S.H. as the Foreign Service Travel Cooperation Staff of the Ministry of Education, Culture, Research and Technology (Kemendikbudristek) highlighted that in 2023, there was a rapid increase in PDLN applications of approximately 8,500 applicants. The change is a challenge, because it creates a change in the dynamics of PDLN applications, requiring an earlier time of about 2 to 3 weeks before entering the SIMPEL system.

“So, in the future, hopefully the PDLN submission can be done earlier. Well, how will it go or not, it's just a matter of canceling it,” said Irhash.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Public Relations

Interviewee: Prof. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan - Vice Rector III USU

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Public Relations 

News
SDGs
SDGs 16
SDGs 17
Collaboration
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara