MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Scholarships
Kartu Indonesia Pintar Kuliah 2023
Kartu Indonesia Pintar Kuliah 2023

The 2023 KIP Kuliah Merdeka program is now open! Let's take advantage of the KIP Kuliah Merdeka program to achieve your goals.

Registration for KIP Kuliah Merdeka requires data on the National Student Identification Number (NISN), National School Principal Number (NPSN), Single Identity Number (NIK), and e-mail address. Ensure the NISN, NPSN, and NIK of the prospective KIP Kuliah 2023 applicants are valid, according to the data recorded in the Basic Education Data (Dapodik), the Ministry of Education, Culture, Research and Technology.

For you new USU students batch 2023 who register for KIP Lecture, you must fill in the following link.

KIP Kuliah Merdeka aims to increase the economic potential and social mobility for students from poor/vulnerable families to study. KIP Kuliah Merdeka is equipped with new policies related to tuition fees and living expenses to encourage prospective students from poor/vulnerable families to study at leading study programs at the best universities throughout Indonesia.

KIP KULIAH MERDEKA BENEFITS

The main benefit of KIP Kuliah Merdeka 2023 is the guarantee of tuition fees paid directly to universities based on the accreditation of the study program. In addition, living expenses will also be covered for selected KIP Kuliah Merdeka recipient students. The living cost assistance is entirely the students' right, so it is transferred directly to the recipient student's account. Students can use this assistance to meet various needs during college, and universities may not use it for any additional costs.

In 2023, the cost of living assistance provided to selected students is given in 5 clusters based on the region, which are IDR 800,000, IDR 950,000, IDR 1,100,000, IDR 1,250,000, and IDR 1,400,000 per month based on the results of the Cost of Living Survey and the National Socio-Economic Survey by the Central Statistics Agency.

Tuition fees are proposed by the Higher Education Institutions to Puslapdik based on the average tuition fees for non-KIP Independent Study students in each Study Program in the same academic year or 1 year earlier. The amount for study programs with A accreditation is a maximum of IDR 12,000,000 specifically for medical study programs and a maximum of IDR 8,000,000 for non-medical study programs. For those with B accreditation, the maximum amount is IDR 4,000,000; for those with C accreditation, the maximum is IDR 2,400,000. With this education cost guarantee, universities may no longer ask for any additional costs related to the educational operations of the KIP Kuliah Merdeka Program recipients or directly related to the learning process. However, the operational costs of education are not covered:

alma mater jacket or practicum coat
dormitory fees
KKN, fieldwork practice, or internship support fund
independent study and research support fund
graduation fees.

KIP KULIAH MERDEKA 2023 RECIPIENT REQUIREMENTS

The recipients of KIP Kuliah Merdeka are graduates of Senior High School (SMA), Vocational High School (SMK), or other equivalent forms who graduated in the current year or a maximum of graduating 2 (two) years earlier;
Have passed the selection of new student admissions through all entrance pathways of Academic Universities or Vocational Universities and accepted at State or Private Universities in Study Programs that have been officially accredited and recorded in the national accreditation system of universities; 
Have good academic potential but are financially challenged or come from poor/vulnerable families and/or with special considerations supported by valid documentary evidence.

FINANCIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR KIP KULIAH MERDEKA 2023

The financial requirements for KIP Kuliah Merdeka recipients are students who come from poor/vulnerable families as evidenced by:

Students who are holders or owners of the Kartu Indonesia Pintar (KIP) for Secondary Education;
Included in the Integrated Social Welfare Data (DTKS) or receive social assistance programs established by the Ministry of Social Affairs such as:
Program Keluarga Harapan (PKH) social assistance; 
Recipient of Health Insurance Contribution (PBI JK) social assistance; 
Non-Cash Food Assistance (BPNT) social assistance;
Entering the poor/vulnerable to poverty group at a maximum of the 3rd decile (three) of the Targeting Data for the Acceleration of the Elimination of Extreme Poverty (P3KE) determined by the Coordinating Ministry for Human Development and Culture;
Students from an orphanage;
If the prospective recipient does not meet one of the 4 criteria above, they can still register for KIP Kuliah Merdeka as long as they meet the requirements of poor/vulnerable to poverty under the provisions, as evidenced by:
Proof of combined gross income of parents/guardians at a maximum of IDR4,000,000 per month or combined gross income of parents/guardians divided by the number of family members at a maximum of IDR750,000; and
Evidence of a poor family in the form of a Certificate of Incapacity (SKTM) issued and legalized by the government, at least at the village/ urban village level, to state the condition of a poor or incapable family.
Scholarship Schedule
Registration	14 Februari 2023 - 31 Oktober 2023 (22:00)
Selection Process	-
Announcements	-
Status	Closed
Show More

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara