MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Holds Face-To-Face Graduation, 2,495 Graduates Inducted
USU Holds Face-to-Face Graduation, 2,495 Graduates Inducted
Published At
30 November 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Holds Face-to-Face Graduation, 2,495 Graduates Inducted
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 30 November 2021

Dr. Muryanto conveyed four important messages so that every USU alumni would be respected by the world of work, in all types of industries because they are problem solvers for industry.

USU PR - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) for the first time when the pandemic hit held a face-to-face graduation with strict health protocols. A total of 2,495 graduates were divided into four Graduation Sessions Period I Academic Year 2021/2022 at the USU Auditorium Building on November 22-23, 2021. The graduates who graduated came from the Undergraduate Program, Diploma Program, Master Program, Doctoral Program, Professional Education, Doctoral Program , Masters Level, and Specialist Doctor Education Program.

In his speech, Tuesday (11/23/2021), USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin S.Sos., M.Si., congratulated the graduates who were inaugurated today. "Hopefully the knowledge that has been obtained during the lecture period, although part of the lecture process must be carried out online, can be a meaningful provision for your life," said the Rector.

Dr. Muryanto conveyed four important messages so that every USU alumni would be respected by the world of work, in all types of industries because they are problem solvers for industry.

“First, you must be proud to be a USU Alumni. Currently, USU's green campus has won international recognition, as one of the PTNBH in Indonesia, and the best campus in Indonesia, especially in the western part of Indonesia," he said.

Second, after this graduation, the graduates are expected to become USU alumni who have strong motivation in the world of work, because the job market is already hypercompetitive labor market. "You have to show the skills and passion that you honed, while studying on campus, to the industrial world that requires solutions to problems that are always found," he said.

The third message, alumni must continue to transform to respond to the three disruptions that hit life at the same time, namely climate change, the industrial revolution 4.0, and the Covid-19 pandemic.

"The way that can be done to fulfill the hypercompetitive labor market is to transform oneself through transformation to always be a tough learner and transformation from manual citizens to digital citizens," he continued.

The fourth message, Mury explained, is to always make friends with various people who come from other disciplines and associate with industry. “There is no longer the superiority of science. The knowledge you have now must be continuously added, updated and modified with other sciences in order to produce ideas that are in accordance with the changes needed in the global market era," said Dr. Muryanto.

On the occasion, the Rector also revealed that the grand design that had been prepared for the internationalization of USU in achieving the various targets stated in the USU Long Term Plan (RJP) and Strategic Plan, as well as the Rector's Work Program for the next 5 years is a commitment that must be fulfilled and implemented. with sincerity and good cooperation between USU academics.

"To achieve this goal, support from all alumni and the USU academic community, stakeholders and business partners is needed to collaborate, in increasing USU's achievements as a university that has a good reputation at the national and international levels," he said.

Observations in the field, the graduates and their families were so enthusiastic that they packed the auditorium court arena which was held in four sessions, in which one day was divided into two sessions, namely the morning session starting at 08.00 WIB and the afternoon session starting at 14.00 WIB.

One of the graduates, Emya Pratidina Sembiring who was interviewed, admitted that he was happy to be able to attend the face-to-face graduation directly. He hopes that the Covid-19 pandemic will end soon, so he can return to his normal activities. "Happy and touched," said the graduate of USU's Master of Laws. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang, Muhammad Andriansyah - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara