MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
Announcements
SBPU TALENTA 2024
SBPU TALENTA 2024
Published At
05 June 2024
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
The document cannot be displayed because the browser does not support, please access the document via the file button.
SBPU TALENTA 2024
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 05 June 2024

Documents

announcement--pengumuman-sbpu-talenta-2024-ivcp

PDF

Description

ANNOUNCEMENTNumber: 17720/UN5.1.R/SPB/2024

ADMISSION OF NEW STUDENTS

SUPERIOR TALENT ACHIEVEMENT-BASED SELECTION PATH (SBPU TALENT)

UNIVERSITAS SUMATERA UTARA 2024

 

New Student Admission for USU Talent Superior Achievement-Based Selection (SBPU Talenta) is an entrance selection for the University of North Sumatra which is organized independently by Universitas Sumatera Utara for Undergraduate (S1) and Vocational (D3 & D4) programs. This selection aims to attract prospective students who have good academic and non-academic achievements.

SELECTION PARTICIPANT REQUIREMENTS

A. General Requirements

1. Indonesian citizen (WNI) who has a Population Identification Number (NIK);

2. SMA/SMK/MA students in Grade 12 or the last grade in 2024;

3. Package C students in 2024 with a maximum age of 25 years (as of July 1, 2024);

Students who do not have a diploma at points 2 and 3, must bring a letter of certificate of grade 12 at least certificate of grade 12 students at least accompanied by:

a. Identity, including name, class, NISN and NPSN;

b. Recent photograph (in color);

c. Signature of Principal/Madrasa; AND

d. School seal/stamp.

4. Students in 2024 who are later declared accepted are MANDATORY to upload graduation documents (SKL/Ijazah) at the time of registration. Students who cannot prove their graduation documents will be canceled as prospective new students of Unviersitas Sumatera Utara.

5. Graduates of SMA / SMK / MA equivalent in 2022 and 2023;

6. Package C graduates in 2022 and 2023 with a maximum age of 25 years (as of July 1, 2024);

7. Overseas School graduates are required to have an equalization letter that has beenequalized diploma;

8. Outstanding achievements on that are individual/group in nature;

9. Champion / award or achievement as referred to in point 8 achieved during Education in SMA/MA/SMK/MAK equivalent ..;

10. Able to comply with the Ethics and Rules of Conduct and fulfill the requirements as USU student

11. Have an NISN that is registered with NPSN;

12. Selection participants have adequate health so that they do not interfere withlearning process in their study program.

 

B. Special Requirements

1. In addition to meeting the general requirements, new student candidates for the superior achievement selection pathway

must have one of the following achievements or have a certificate/certificate:

a. Champion / Achievement I, II, or III or obtaining gold, silver, or bronze trophies / medals

for championships in the fields of sports, arts, spirituality, reasoning, olympiads in the field of

and other field competitions or have other superior achievements obtained during

SMA/MA/SMK/MAK equivalent;

b. Expertise/ability or other superior achievements as evidenced by certificates or

certificate or certificate from an official institution established and/or recognized by the government that

the organizer of the superior expertise/ability or superior achievement program;

c. Expertise / ability in the field of Special Spirituality in the field of Hifzhil Qur'an at least

5 (five) Juz obtained while attending SMA/MA/SMK/MAK equivalent.

 

2. Champion / Achievement as referred to in number (1) letter a is Champion / Achievement 1 at the

District/City level, 1st and 2nd place at the Provincial level, 1st, 2nd and 3rd place at the

National level, and Champion / Achievement of all categories at the international level involving

at least 3 (three) countries.

 

3. Proof of certificate, championship charter or certificate of superior achievement/ability

as referred to in point (1) must be authorized by the Head of the local Service Office or an authorized

authorized official/administrator.

 

4. Champions/achievements in the field of sports as referred to in number (1) letter a that are  international Multi Event championships (POPNAS, PON, Sea Games, Asian Games and Olympics) as well as single event National Championships between provinces of all sports organized by the organizer.

Provinces of all sports organized by KONI or Government Agencies and is an official championship known by the Government Agencies and is an official championship known by the parent sports organization which is evidenced by authentic evidence in the form of certificates and recommendations from the Parent Sports / KONI.

5. Champion / Achievement in the field of Spirituality as referred to in number (1) letter a for

Islamic spirituality that are recognized are achievements organized by relevant government agencies or SOEs and their

government agencies or SOEs that are relevant and institutionalized in nature, including:

a. MTQ Category of Al-Qur'an Tilawah Branch;

b. MTQ Category of Al-Qur'an Tartil Branch;

c. MTQ Category of Hifzhil Al-Qur'an Branch;

d. MTQ Category of Syarh Al-Qur'an Branch;

e. MTQ Category of Fahm Al-Qur'an Branch;

f. MTQ Category of Al-Qur'an Calligraphy Branch;

g. MTQ Category of Al-Qur'an Content Writing Branch;

h. MTQ Category of Al-Qur'an Interpretation Branch;

i. MTQ Category of Qira'at Al-Qur'an Branch. 

6. Champion / Achievement in the field of Spirituality as referred to in number (1) letter a for Protestant Christian Spirituality, which is recognized is an achievement organized by relevant government agencies or BUMN and is institutionalized such as championships

PESPARAWI championships include:

a. Champion of Female Youth Solo Singer Category - Pesparawi;b.Champion of Male Youth Solo Singer Category - Pesparawi;c. Champion of Youth Choir Category - Pesparawi (Group);d. Vocal Group Category Champion - Pesparawi (Group);e. Church Pop Music Category Champion (Group);f. Best Conductor/Director.

 

7. Excluded from the provisions in point (2), champions/achievements in the field of Arts as referred to in point (1) that are recognized are individual champions of national scale talent search competitions organized by government agencies or BUMN or Private Parties.

 

8. Inventors of Appropriate Technology as evidenced by Patents, Copyrights or other Intellectual Property Rights issued by the Ministry of Law and Human Rights of the Republic of Indonesia.

 

C. Selection Stages

1.File Selection / administration

2.Interview Selection / Field Competency Test

 

D. NEW STUDENT ADMISSION SCHEDULE

 

E. REGISTRATION FEE

The registration fee for SBPU TALENTA USU New Student Admission Year 2024 is 350,000, - (three hundred and fifty thousand rupiah). Registration fees that have been paid at the bank cannot be withdrawn for any reason.

 

F. HIGH SCHOOL/MA/SMK/MAK RAPPORT SCORES

The report card scores of general subjects such as Religious Education, PPKN, Mathematics, Indonesian Language, Indonesian History and English from semester one to semester five for SMA/SMK/MA with a three-year study period.

 

G. ACCREDITATION SCORE DATA REQUIREDThe school and department accreditation that is still valid is filled in in the form of rank (A/B/C) and value (number). The school/counseling teacher can confirm this information.

 

H. SELECTION OF STUDY PROGRAM

1. Prospective participants can choose a maximum of two Vocational (Diploma) and/or Undergraduate study programs available at USU.

2. The order in the selection of study programs states the priority of choice.

3. Study programs that can be selected are only those that offer options in accordance with the original major of SMA / MA / SMK / MAK equivalent.

 

I. REGISTRATION PROCEDURE

a. Online Registration

1. Create an account on the page https://seleksi-prestasi.usu.ac.id;

2. Choose TALENTA USU 2024 Superior Achievement Path Selection on the dashboard page;

3. Fill in the NISN and NPSN number data;

4. Make payment of registration fees using the Payment Code that appears during registration at admissions;

5. Prospective participants pay the registration fee through Bank BNI

6. After successful payment, participants confirm payment on the admissions page.

Please duplicate (photocopy) the payment receipt at least 1 (one) sheet as backup evidence;

7. Fill out the registration form on the page https://seleksi-prestasi.usu.ac.id;

8. Choose the intended study program based on the requirements in point F;

 

b. File Uploading

Upload the complete registration file as follows:

Filling in the main data and uploading files is done online through the website

https://seleksi-prestasi.usu.ac.id from June 15 to 24, 2024. The files uploaded during registration include the following:

a. Photograph of self;

b. Report Card per Semester that the school has legalized;

c. Fill in the report card scores for semester 1 to 5 (Religious Education, PPKN, Indonesian Language, Mathematics, Indonesian History and English subjects) in accordance with the original;

d. Photocopy of diploma / SKL (for students graduating in 2024) which the school has legalized.

For graduates in 2022 and 2023 must upload a photocopy of the diploma that the school has legalized;

e. Identity Card (KTP) / Certificate of Population / Family Card (KK);

f. School and department accreditation (SMK only) that is still valid;

g. Certificates of superior achievement (3 best achievements) in the fields of academics, sports and arts and religion while studying at SMA/MA/SMK

1. International level involving at least 3 (three) countries (All Categories)

2. National level (1st, 2nd, 3rd, Gold, Silver, Bronze)

3. Provincial Level (1st and 2nd place)

4. District/City level (1st place)

5. Special for Hifzhil Qur'an (Minimum 5 Juz)

h. Uploading Photo of Certificate of Achievement Submission;

i. Include a link / website that can be accessed regarding information on the implementation of Achievement;

j. Approve the data entry statement and finalize the registration;

k. Printing the selection participant card;

 

J. OTHER

1. Each participant MUST fulfill the provisions in this announcement;

2. SBPU TALENTA USU participants who have passed the selection:

a. Required to do re-registration administration registration in accordance with the specified schedule;

b. Not allowed to move to another study program;

c. Declared invalid if they do not register for re-registration administration in accordance with the provisions; or proven to falsify data / commit fraud / provide information that is not in accordance with the actual situation.

d. Following the Physical Health and Color Blindness examination for Study Programs that requirerequires no color blindness;

e. Show the latest Certificate of Drug Free from USU Teaching Hospital.

f. Show a Certificate explaining that he/she has never been involved in a criminal offense.

3. Schedule changes and other matters related to SBPU TALENTA USU are announced through the website https://seleksi-prestasi.usu.ac.id or www.usu.ac.id.

 

ATTENTION:

1. Registration fees that have been deposited cannot be withdrawn.

2. Prospective students accepted through the SBPU TALENTA USU Pathway who are late in reporting according to a predetermined schedule, then their graduation can be canceled.

3. Prospective students please obey the entire schedule that has been set. 

Attachments:

https://konten.usu.ac.id/storage/posts/27413/announcement--pengumuman-sbpu-talenta-2024-ivcp.pdf 

Author: Humas - Humas

Interviewee: Edy Ikhsan SH., MA - Wakil Rektor I USU

Photographer: istimewa - istimewa

Announcement
Find More Announcements
Announcements
Second Tender Announcement: Selection of a Cooperation Partner for the Utilization of the Former Library Canteen Building of USU
Announcements
Recruitment Selection Process for Permanent Faculty Positions at Universitas Sumatera Utara for 2025 Academic Year
Announcements
Procedures for Re-registration of New Students Admitted through SMM 2025

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara