MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU FISIP And Immigration Office Hold Eazy Passport Service
USU FISIP and Immigration Office Hold Eazy Passport Service
Published At
19 August 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU FISIP and Immigration Office Hold Eazy Passport Service
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 19 August 2022

Eazy passport service is a service from the immigration office for applications for new passports and passport renewals. Dean of FISIP Dr. Hatta Ridho, S.Sos., MSP said that this service is intended for the academic community, employees, alumni, and FISIP students and their families with a maximum of 100 applicants.

PR USU - The Faculty of Social and Political Sciences (FISIP) of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) in collaboration with the Immigration Regional Office Class 1 TPI North Sumatra held the Eazy Passport Service. The activity took place at the FISIP multipurpose building on Saturday, (8/6/2022).

Eazy passport service is a service from the immigration office for applications for new passports and passport renewals. Dean of FISIP Dr. Hatta Ridho, S.Sos., MSP said that this service is intended for the academic community, employees, alumni, and FISIP students and their families with a maximum of 100 applicants.

"This is for the academic community, there are also employees, there are also alumni, and also students who register and their families," Dr. Hatta said.

The Dean of FISIP expressed his gratitude for the willingness of the North Sumatra Regional Immigration Office to hold an Eazy Passport Service at USU's FISIP because it facilitates the process of making passports because the process is carried out in one place so that applicants do not need to follow the queue at the head office.

“It will make it easier to make passports because it is concentrated in one place and does not follow queues at the office, which is extraordinary. So this collaboration is outside working hours on Saturdays. We are grateful for the availability of the Immigration Kanwil (Regional Office) to serve FISIP,” he said.

Dr. Hatta Ridho, S.Sos., MSP said that by taking care of passports, everyone is expected to be aware of the administration so that relations related to travel, both tourism and others, are easy to implement.

"Hopefully the administration is aware that traveling abroad must have complete documents so that our relations, whatever our regular travel or treatment can be easily carried out," said the Dean of FISIP.

On the same occasion, Head of Information Technology and Immigration Communications Adithia P. Barus explained in more detail about the eazy passport service. Based on the explanation of Adhitia P. Barus, this service is a breakthrough for the Directorate General of Immigration to provide collective passport-making services. Adhitia P. This can be done by submitting an application to the immigration office and then the immigration office will serve on the spot.

"This eazy passport service is a breakthrough from the director general of immigration, this is a collective passport making service that does not need the applicant to come in droves to the immigration office, just collectively apply to the immigration office and we will serve it on the spot," Adhitia said.

Head of Travel Documents and Immigration Residence Permits Widiyanto explained the documents needed for easy passport services, including ID cards, family cards, birth certificates for new passport applicants and old ID cards and passports for passport renewal applicants. Later the immigration officer will verify the relevant data by matching the attached documents.

"So, to match the data from the person concerned with the documents, we will process the documents to make a passport," Widiyanto explained. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Collaboration
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara