MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Accepting 8,653 New Students Of 2021 From 4 Student Admission Selection, USU Prepares To Hold PKKMB
Accepting 8,653 New Students of 2021 from 4 Student Admission Selection, USU Prepares to Hold PKKMB
Published At
03 August 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Accepting 8,653 New Students of 2021 from 4 Student Admission Selection, USU Prepares to Hold PKKMB
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 03 August 2021

MEDAN – USU PUBLIC RELATION: After completing all the entire series of new student admission selection for the 2021/2022 academic year, the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) accepts 8,653 prospective new students successfully passing from the four admission selection routes held by USU, namely SNMPTN, SBMPTN, SMM and SPMPD.

It was conveyed by the USU Rector, Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., through the Head of the USU Public Relations, Protocol and Promotion Office, Amalia Meutia, M.Psi., Psychologist, to the media, Monday (7/26/2021) through a release issued by the USU Public Relations, Protocol and Promotion Office.

The Rector stated that with the completion of the entire series of student admissions process, USU is now preparing for the 2021 New Student Campus Life Orientation (PKKMB) which will take place in August. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, which makes it impossible to organize offline activities, the USU PPKMB this year will be held online. PKKMB is an official new student admission activity, by providing materials related to the orientation of the campus, where before the pandemic this activities took place offline for several days.

We strive so that all academic activities run according to the schedule that has been set up. However, given the pandemic and the possibility that a policy of restricting face-to-face gathering may still be applied, the PKKMB will be conducted.This is conducted not only to comply with the government regulations, but also as USU's commitment in supporting all efforts to suppress the rate of transmission of Covid-19 within the community. It is our hope that, whether it is offline or online, the essence of the PKKMB implementation can be achieved," the Rector said.

In spite of the fact that it will be held online, USU Rector hopes that new students will still be enthusiastic about welcoming their first year of study. The pandemic condition is a situation that must be accepted sincerely, and treated wisely.

“I hope that the new students are excited about the start of their academic year, despite the fact that the lectures are still delivered online. Let’s hope this pandemic subsides soon, and USU can host the hybrid lectures with a mix of 50 percent face-to-face and 50 percent online lecturers, and gradually it becomes normal," the Rector hoped.

The Diploma Program Student Admission Selection (SPMPD) is the last opportunity for SMA/SMK alumni to enroll at USU for the academic year 2021/2022 and has announced the names of prospective new USU students have passed. On Thursday, (7/22/2021) SPMD test results notified the 1,170 selected participants where the exam was held in conjunction with the Independent Student Selection (SMM) which was administered from 4-9 July 2021. A total of 864 participants participated in the SPMPD USU 2021, including 272 participants for the science and technology (IPA)test group, 481 in the social humanities (IPS) test group, and 111 in the mix science and social science (IPC) test group.

Vice Rector I of USU, Dr. Edy Ikhsan, SH, MA, on different occasion said that the most favorite and competitive study programs in 2021 remain the same with the previous years. In IPA test group, Technique Informatics (1,621), Pharmacy and Food Analysis (1,166), and Statistics (1,044) are the most popular study programs. On the other hand, the most popular and competitive study programs in IPS test group are Tax Administration (1,596), Finance (1,280), and Accounting (1,277).

Amalia Meutia, the head of USU Public Relations, reminded the selected participants to register and upload their documents on July 27-27, 2021, on the http://registrasi.usu.ac.idpage. She appealed to all SPMPD participants who have passed to carefully read throughthe admission procedures contained on the http://registrasi.usu.ad.id page

“We hope all SPMPD participants who pass able to adhere to the entire schedule listed properly. Don’t be late because the tardiness could affect the participants’ passing and their status of the pass can be revoked,” Amalia explained. (©ULC)

Author: Renny Julia Harahap - Rector

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Rector

News
Admission
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara