MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Ceremony To Commemorate Heroes' Day 2024
USU Ceremony to Commemorate Heroes' Day 2024
Published At
14 November 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
USU Ceremony to Commemorate Heroes' Day 2024
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Thursday, 14 November 2024

“In terms of academics, of course we must all strive to make Indonesia better than before and the quality of the nation's children through the educational process they undergo provides people who are resilient, resilient, competitive with other countries,” he said.

USU PR - The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) commemorates Heroes' Day, which falls on November 10 as a momentum to commemorate the services of heroes who have fought for the independence and progress of the nation. The ceremony was solemnly attended by the academic community at the USU Rector Bureau Courtyard on Sunday (10/11/2024).

This year's Heroes' Day takes the theme “Teladani Pahlawanmu, Cintai Negerimu”. This theme has a deep meaning, namely “Teladani Pahlawanmu” means that all our actions and thoughts should be inspired by the spirit and sincerity of the heroes. “Cintai Negerimu” conveys that every contribution we make is expected to have a positive impact on the progress of the nation and state of Indonesia.

Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan S.Si., M.Si., Apt, as Vice Rector III of USU, delivered a mandate from the Minister of Social Affairs of the Republic of Indonesia in commemoration of Heroes' Day this year. The spirit of heroism must spread to the spirit of building, creating community prosperity, realizing lifelong social protection, and realizing inclusive social welfare for the people wherever they are.

Prof. Poppy also explained that related to the theme of Heroes' Day in 2024, interpreting the figure of heroes of the past and present is different. He also interpreted the theme of the academic realm, namely by building a competent nation's children, having skills so that they can be competitive with other nations.

“In terms of academics, of course, we must all strive to make Indonesia better than before, and the quality of the nation's children through the educational process they undergo provides people who are resilient, resilient, competitive with other countries,” he said.

Vice Rector III said that students must implement the spirit of NKRI in life, especially students who are currently studying abroad. He advised that Indonesian students abroad not to fold the nation's customs and must uphold a sense of nationalism.

“We must not forget that the customs and traditions of the Indonesian nation must be upheld at all times,” he said.

The Heroes' Day commemoration at USU is expected to be a reminder for the younger generation of the importance of their role in building a better future for the nation. Students can draw inspiration from heroic values and love this country more.

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara