MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Medicine
Master's Program In Biomedical Science
Master Program
Biomedical Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Biomedical science is a branch of medical science that uses the basic principles and knowledge of the natural sciences (biology, chemistry, and physics) to explain the phenomena of life at the molecular level of atoms, cells, organs, and whole organisms as well as their relationship with disease and the environment, which is intended as a scientific basis in order to carry out the discovery and development of materials for medical needs.

The Master's Program in Biomedical Science Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is committed to providing excellent studies that prioritize competence according to the demands of the latest science and technology. The Master's Program in Biomedical Science has produced the best graduates in their fields and is spread across various regions of Indonesia. Students who have completed this study will hold the Master of Biomedicine (M.Biomed.) degree.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

s2-biomedik@usu.ac.id

Master's Program in Biomedical Science

Accredited Excellent

No. 0562/LAM-PTKes/Akr/Mag/VII/2022

Vision of Master's Program in Biomedical Science

To realize the Biomedical Science Master’s Study Program of the Universitas Sumatera Utara Faculty of Medicine as an international standard study program by 2024 with excellence in the fields of Tropical Medicine and Preventive Oncology oriented to Human and Environmental Interaction as well as Industry.

Mission of Master's Program in Biomedical Science

Conducive Academic Atmosphere

To create a conducive academic atmosphere for the academic community of the biomedical science master’s study program in carrying out the Three Pillars of Higher Education (Tridharma Peruguran Tinggi) to achieve educational goals oriented towards sustainable development goals with the One Health concept approach.

Competent Graduates

To produce graduates who are able to apply and develop biomedical science as well as have scientific competence and competitiveness in the world of work.

Research

To develop research based on human interaction with the environment and the industrial world, especially those related to tropical medicine and preventive oncology.

Community Service

To develop community service as an application related to the results of biomedical science research based on human interaction with the environment and the industrial world, especially those related to tropical medicine and preventive oncology.

Scientific Quality

To develop the scientific quality of the academic community based on the latest knowledge developments (state of the art) with a multidisciplinary approach.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Biochemistry

Physiology

Pharmacology

Anatomy

Contact Us
Master's Program in Biomedical Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Dr. Mansyur No. 5, Padang Bulan, Kec. Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20155

(061) - 8211045

s2-biomedik@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara