MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
University Activity
USU Lecturers Hold Training On Making Organic Floor Cleaner
USU Lecturers Hold Training on Making Organic Floor Cleaner
Published At
04 August 2022
Published By
Christoffel Daniel Yesaya Tambunan
USU Lecturers Hold Training on Making Organic Floor Cleaner
 

Published by

Christoffel Daniel Yesaya Tambunan

Published at

Thursday, 04 August 2022

Through the Community Service Institute (LPPM), lecturers from Universitas Sumatera Utara have conducted a community service program under the Regular Lecturer Service Scheme at Ar Raudlatul Hasanah Islamic Boarding School on Jamin Ginting Street, Medan. The program was led by Dr. Nurzainah Ginting and included members Prof. Armansyah Ginting, Ir. Edhy Mirwandhono, M.P., M.Si, and Prof. Zuhrina. It was carried out on July 17, 2022. The activity also involved four students from the Animal Science Study Program of the Faculty of Agriculture of Universitas Sumatera Utara, in conjunction with implementing the USU MBKM program.

The community service was conducted in the form of a training session titled “Optimization of the Benefits of Organic Floor Cleaner Enriched with Jeringau or sweet flag (Acorus calamus) at Ar-Raudlatul Hasanah Islamic Boarding School, Medan Sunggal District, Medan Municipality.” The boarding school houses approximately 3,500 students in permanent dormitory buildings and a mosque, with a total building area of around 80,000 m². A significant amount of floor cleaners is required, and chemical-based floor cleaners have been used so far. The wastewater from the cleaning process is discharged into bodies of water, affecting aquatic life, and the monthly cost of purchasing the cleaners is considerably high.This community service program taught participants how to make and use organic floor cleaners derived from fermented fruits enriched with sweet flag (Acorus calamus). The product, PLOJ (Organic Floor Cleaner Enriched with Jeringau), has been proven through research to effectively control microbial growth, including both gram-negative and gram-positive bacteria. PLOJ is produced through a fruit fermentation process, where the ingredients do not have to be fresh but can be overripe, thus also serving as a method for managing organic waste. The necessary organic materials can be sourced from the boarding school’s kitchen.The students enthusiastically participated in the training. The sixth-year female students committed to producing PLOJ at home after graduating from the boarding school. They immediately applied PLOJ in their dormitories, including at Ruqoyyah Dormitory. Some students also expressed interest in producing and selling PLOJ in their local communities, with the proceeds potentially supporting their future education.Dr. Nurzainah Ginting hopes that this community service initiative will benefit the Ar-Raudlatul Hasanah boarding school environment and the families of students across North Sumatra, Aceh, Riau, Malaysia, and Thailand.

University Activity
Community Service Activity
Find More Activity
University Activity
USU Lecturer Concern on the Extinction of Orangutan Tapanuli
University Activity
USU professor turns shrimp shell waste into face serum
University Activity
USU Research Collaboration Lowers Stunting Rate in Sergai

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara