MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
“Ulil Albab Al-Qur'an Reading House”, USU Community Service Center In Pasi Village
“Ulil Albab Al-Qur'an Reading House”, USU Community Service Center in Pasi Village
Published At
25 August 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
“Ulil Albab Al-Qur'an Reading House”, USU Community Service Center in Pasi Village
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 25 August 2021

Book is a window to the world. We can know the world and gain knowledge by reading books. Reading has a close relationship with reading interest. Reading interest also has a correlation with the type and form of the book read. Children aged 7 to 15 years tend to like colorful reading books accompanied by interesting pictures, which can increase children's reading interest

To that end, the Universitas Sumatera Utara Community Service Institute (LPPM) through a Service Team consisting of Yuan Alfinsyah Sihombing, MSc, Dr. Susilawati, M.Si., M Zulham Efendi Sinaga, M.Si., and Fatimatuzzahra Nasution, SS, M.Si., conducted Community Service (PKM) ) at the Ulil Albab Al-Qur'an Reading House.The location of this PKM is in Pasi Village, Berampu District, Dairi Regency, North Sumatra.Pasi village is about 155 km from thecity ​​ofMedan and can be reached in about 30 minutes from the district of Dairi, namely Sidikalang.This location was chosen because the availability of various reading books in the reading house was inadequate.The USU Service Team headed to the location on Monday, August 9, 2021.

“This reading house was established, so that children can gain knowledge and enjoy reading.However, the books are still few,” said Muhlid, a local resident, to the USU Service Team.

“There are also few who teach the Koran for children, sir.The teacher of theKoransometimes has other matters.So they can read books in this reading house, when they are not reading the Koran,” he continued.tothe USU Service Team.

Tahsin Qur'an is one of the series of activities in this service.This activity is carried out to introduce makhraj and Shifat Al Surat Hijaiyah, so that children are able to read the Qur'an properly and correctly.

The tahsin activitywill becarried out by the team with the youth of the Pasi Village Mosque online every week to practice reading the Qur'an.This activitywilllast about two months.

“Wewillprogram theprocess of tahsinul Qur'anwith teenagers through online.We are doing this considering the Covid-19 pandemic is not over yet.Meanwhile, learning to read the Qur'an properly and correctly must be programmed several times.The hope is that it is the youth of the mosque who will teach their younger siblings later,” said Mr. Yuan Alfinsyah Sihombing, MSc, as the head of the USU dedication team to the editor.

At the end of the activity, the USU PKM Team provided assistance with reading books, including the Muhammad Is My Hero Book Series, 4 Widya Wiyata Pratama children's book series and the Science Tafsir Book Series Knowing the Verses of Science.All the books provided are in color and have interesting pictures.

“We are very grateful to LPPM USU for helping us in providing very interesting books.Hopefully this will be a charity and be useful for the children here,” said Mr. Muhlid as the head of the Pasi Village reading house when theteamasked for permission to leave the location.

Community Service is an integral part of the Tri Dharma of Higher Education.This activity is expected to provide solutions to problems faced by the community.So that the emergence of a civilization of people who are knowledgeable and intelligent (Ulil Albab) to remote parts of the country.(RJ/©ULC)

Author: M. Zulham Efendi Sinaga, MSi - -

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Lembaga Pengabdian Kepada Masyarakat (LPPM) - -

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara