MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Cooperates With PT Telkom Property And PT KINRA
USU Cooperates with PT Telkom Property and PT KINRA
Published At
20 June 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Cooperates with PT Telkom Property and PT KINRA
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 20 June 2022

The collaboration between USU and PT Telkom recently is doing to design and manage a digital-based learning center building that meets the principles of green building and digitizing building. It follows what was conveyed by the Rector of USU, Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos, M.Sc.

PR USU - University of North Sumatra (USU) officially cooperates with PT. Telkom Porperty and PT KINRA. This was stated in the signing of a memorandum of understanding held in the Senate Room of the USU Central Administration Building on Wednesday (15/06/2022).

The collaboration between USU and PT Telkom recently is doing to design and manage a digital-based learning center building that meets the principles of green building and digitizing building. It follows what was conveyed by the Rector of USU, Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos, M.Sc.

"The MoU with Telkom is carried out in the framework of cooperation for the design of building management that we are building at the digital learning center so that it fulfills the principles of green building and digitizing building," said USU Rector.

The Rector also stated that this collaboration targeting USU and Telkom could later be realized by involving students taking part in the MBKM program. Like learning to manage a building.

"Hopefully, later we can come together so that we can share all the interests of each. We mean that later we will involve students to take part in the MBKM program here. Learn to manage buildings. The building was done well by generating additional income for USU," he said.

The interesting thing in this MoU is that there is continuity with Transformation Towards the Ultimate because this development explains efficient building management and generates additional income to provide transformational learning for students on how to work as engineering design for building management.

"This is because we built this to be able to explain that building management must be efficient and generate additional income to provide transformational learning for students as to what works as a design engineer in building management," he said.

At the same time, President Director of Telkom Property Muhammad Firdaus said that the reason for choosing USU in this collaboration was because it started with a visit later that one of the Telkom Property portfolios was following what USU needed. Namely, asset management so that USU and Telkom Property could synergize.

"This started from our visit and then a joint initiation where Telkom property is one of its portfolios as asset management, and the USU campus is willing to develop existing assets into facilities," he said.

Meanwhile, USU is also cooperating with PT KINRA. The Chancellor said that the thing that was highlighted in the collaboration was the growth of PT KINRA as the manager of the SEZ. Sei Mangkei invited USU to work together in providing human resources for the development of the use of the area.

"The program to discuss the growth of PT Kinra's Sei Mangkei as the manager of the area invites USU to work together, especially to provide manpower, especially later its development will be further into the use of this industrial area," he said.

Director of PT. KINRA, Edward S. Ginting said that USU was chosen in this collaboration because both are government-owned institutions. In addition, because USU is the largest university and one of the best, he hopes that Semangki's workforce will be USU graduates.

"As a government institution, and this is the biggest university and also one of the best, so we hope that the workforce in Semangki comes from USU," he said.

The program that will be launched by PT KINRA to students, both fresh graduates and those in college, is in the form of fulfilling human resources for tenant investors so that it can help business growth in SEI Mangkei.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara