MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU And Muroran Institute Of Technology In Japan Collaborate
USU and Muroran Institute of Technology in Japan Collaborate
Published At
13 October 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU and Muroran Institute of Technology in Japan Collaborate
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 13 October 2023

Muroran is currently also developing technology related to earthquake handling and prevention and the development of artificial intelligence (AI). This is in line with USU's internationalization programs, so it will be very good if the long-standing cooperation can be further developed," said the rector during his visit to the Muroran Institute on Tuesday (10/10/2023).

USU PR- Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is currently developing artificial intelligence (AI) technology as part of its flagship internationalization program. To realize this program, USU has partnered with one of Japan's leading institutions, the Muroran Institute of Technology.

USU Rector Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., directly led the delegation from USU to discuss the cooperation program that will be carried out. It is known that the collaboration with the Muroran Institute of Technology has been ongoing since 2013.

"Muroran is currently also developing technology related to earthquake handling and prevention and the development of artificial intelligence (AI). This is in line with USU's internationalization programs, so it will be very good if the long-standing cooperation can be further developed," said the rector during his visit to the Muroran Institute on Tuesday (10/10/2023).

Prof. Mury explained that USU plans to increase the number of student exchanges, especially for doctoral programs. In addition, lecturers from USU and Muroran will hold joint classes.

"Another program is joint research using a shared-funding method from Japan. These cooperation programs are expected further to boost USU's reputation in the international education world and strengthen the internationalization program that has been planned," he said.

President of Muroran Institute of Technology Kuga Yoshizaku, who welcomed the USU delegation, expressed his pleasure at improving cooperation with USU. He said that the collaboration with USU has been going well so far and would be great if it could be further developed.

"We are indeed developing artificial intelligence, especially in the food sector. Muroran is working with 52 universities from 22 countries to develop international academic exchange agreements, where USU is one of them. We introduce a Japanese-culture study-tour program to introduce Japanese culture with an internship program for 14 days to 6 months," he said.

The meeting between USU and Muroran Institute reached several cooperation agreements, including Muroran lecturers coming to USU to teach. Some of the studies that will be collaborated on are disaster management, computer science, agriculture, and engineering.

On this occasion, the Rector of USU, who was accompanied on his visit by the Vice-Rector for Finance and Human Resources, Muhammad Arifin Nasution, SSos, MSP, the Head of the Bureau of Evaluation of Priority Programs, Ikhsan Siregar, ST, MEng, and the Director of Internationalization and Global Partnership, Prof. Dr. Eng. Himsar Ambarita, S.T., M.T., also met with USU students at Muroran Institute.

The students welcomed USU's internationalization program and supported the development of the artificial intelligence (AI) program so that they could conduct further research with universities abroad. They also suggested that USU create more collaboration programs such as double degree or sandwich programs.

For information, USU, under the leadership of Rector Prof. Muryanto Amin, is expanding its cooperation to collaborate with internationally renowned universities. In addition to universities in Asia, USU has also established collaboration with a number of universities in Europe, America, and the Middle East.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
World Class University
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara