MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Job Entry Preparation Seminar For Vocational School Graduate
Job Entry Preparation Seminar for Vocational School Graduate
Published At
16 March 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Job Entry Preparation Seminar for Vocational School Graduate
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 16 March 2023

The First Vice Dean of USU's Faculty of Vocational Studies, Dr Drs Muhammad Husni Thamrin M.Si, said the seminar was an effort by the faculty to equip students to prepare for the world of work. In this activity, students are given some encouragement and self-belief in their competence.

USU PR - The Faculty of Vocational Studies initiated a seminar for fresh graduate students of the USU Faculty of Vocational Studies on Tuesday (28/02/2023). The seminar, which discussed employment along with the graduation of USU Vocational students, was held at the USU Student Centre.

With the theme Prepare Yourself to Get Your Dream Job, this event invited Pasoroan Herman Harlanja, President of INAMPA (Indonesian Maritime Pilot's Association) and Relationship Officer of Kisaran Office of BPJS as well as alumni of the Faculty of Vocational Studies Amelya Sibarani as speakers.

The First Vice Dean of USU's Faculty of Vocational Studies, Dr Drs Muhammad Husni Thamrin M.Si, said the seminar was an effort by the faculty to equip students to prepare for the world of work. In this activity, students are given some encouragement and self-belief in their competence.

"Specifically prepared for our students, especially those who just graduated yesterday. In order to prepare them to face the professional world, the stories where we previously heard that the working world is cruel and that the working world does not care about university graduates. Today, we are preparing them (before landing a job), and we have specially invited Mr Herman to provide the base preparation," said Vice Dean I of the USU Faculty of Vocational Studies.

The Faculty of Vocational Studies has a target for its graduates to have a decent job in less than 6 months after graduation.

According to the main speaker, Pasoroan Herman Harlanja, college graduates need to change their mindset. He said that an open mind towards the phenomena occurring in the disruption era is very important, especially in the workplace.

"Today, as a professional, I want to give a paradox that we call inspiration, that only with enthusiasm people can succeed. We hope that the graduates of this vocational programme will be able to get a job soon. What is equally important is how to change the mindset, from closed mindset to growth mindset," said Pasoroan.

Pasoroan Herman Harlanja added that discipline is one of the benchmarks of one's success. Ultimately, he advised that every individual in the university can actualise this university as a learning organisation.

"My last message is that everyone in this university, whether individual students, alumni, lecturers, professors, deans, and so on, including the rector, must make this university a learning organisation," he added.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Alumni & Career
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara