MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Internationalization: USU's Undergraduate Program In Entrepreneurship Holds Entrepreneurship International Summer Course 2024
Internationalization: USU's Undergraduate Program in Entrepreneurship holds Entrepreneurship International Summer Course 2024
Published At
14 November 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
Internationalization: USU's Undergraduate Program in Entrepreneurship holds Entrepreneurship International Summer Course 2024
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Thursday, 14 November 2024

“This event will be a platform for all of us to learn, collaborate, and share experiences, thus enabling us to develop innovative solutions,” said Prof. Poppy.

USU PR - The Undergraduate Program in Entrepreneurship, Faculty of Economics and Business, Universitas Sumatera Utara (FEB USU), held the Entrepreneurship International Summer Course 2024 entitled “Social Entrepreneurship Program as a Solution to a Region's Social Problem” in a hybrid manner at the Prof. Dr. Suhadji Hadibroto Hall, FEB USU, on Monday (11/11/2024).

Vice Rector III, Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan S.Si., M.Si., Apt, in her remarks said the theme raised was very relevant considering that in the midst of rapid technological development and globalization, traditional approaches were not enough to overcome social problems. “In the midst of rapid technological advances and globalization, we face the fact that various social problems cannot be solved only through traditional approaches,” she said.

Vice Rector III, Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan S.Si., M.Si., Apt. said the event was a platform to learn, collaborate and share experiences to create solutions that can support entrepreneurship as a pillar of national economic growth. “This event will be a platform for all of us to learn, collaborate and share experiences, allowing us to develop innovative solutions,” she said.

Dean of FEB US, Dr. Fadli SE. M.Si., in his speech highlighted the importance of social entrepreneurship in providing a positive impact on society. The Dean of FEB USU mentioned that the main goal of social entrepreneurship is to achieve real social change and benefit the community. “Social entrepreneurs are also present to have a positive impact on society,” he said.

Dr. Fadli SE. M.Si., also expressed his gratitude to all parties who supported this activity. He hopes that cooperation can continue to produce useful programs. “Hopefully our cooperation can continue and produce useful programs in the future,” he hoped.

Prof. Dr. Ritha F Dalimunthe SE, M. Si., as the Head of the Undergraduate Program in Entrepreneurship said that she hoped that after this activity, students could build a safe and healthy community. The community is expected to be able to empower the potential of local wisdom in the villages with support from the university. “Students can build a community to make the community safe and healthy,” she said.

This activity also collaborated with 3 entrepreneurial communities, namely the Indonesian Women Entrepreneurs Association (IWAPI), the Indonesian Young Entrepreneurs Association (HIPEMI), and the Indonesian Indigenous Entrepreneurs Association (HIPI).

Dany Perdana Sitompul ST., MM, as the chairman of the committee, said that the preparation for this activity has been going on since 2023. He added that the diverse backgrounds of the speakers and participants were one of the challenges in preparing this event. “The challenge is in terms of language,” he said.

This activity will take place from November 11 to November 17 and will end with a field trip to the Mangrove Love Forest, Batu Bara, and Pasar Kamu Deli Serdang. Participants come from various countries including China, Malaysia, Thailand, and Vietnam. Several domestic and foreign campuses participated such as UiTM, USM, UMSU, and UMN.

News
SDGs 11
SDGs
SDGs 1
SDGs 8
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara