MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Public Health
Master's Program In Public Health Science
Master Program
Public Health Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Master's Program in Public Health Science of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is an advanced education after the Undergraduate Program in Public Health and has achieved Very Good (A) accreditation. This program focuses on a deeper understanding of disease prevention and treatment solutions in society.

Supported by lecturers who are experts in the field of public health with national teaching certificates and assisted by an integrated curriculum, we have a deep commitment to providing intensive and effective guidance and learning experiences for our students. Our main goal is to prepare them to be excellent public health extension workers in the field and able to compete at the national and international levels. Graduates of the Master's Program in Public Health Science are expected to be able to follow developments in the field of public health and work in various health institutions, such as health offices, hospitals, non-governmental organizations in the health sector, consultants, and so on, as well as research lecturers.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

s2kesmas@usu.ac.id

Master's Program in Public Health Science

Accredited Excellent

No. 0511/LAM-PTKes/Akr/Mag/VII/2023

Vision of Master's Program in Public Health Science

To become an Internationally Standardized Master’s Study Program in Developing Public Health Science in Tropical Regions.

Mission of Master's Program in Public Health Science

Technology-Based Education

To organize master’s education that is of quality, responsive, innovative, independent, and based on modern learning technology.

Scientific Research

To organize scientific research to develop public health science in tropical regions and publish them in national and international scientific journals.

Community Service

To organize responsive and innovative community service to enhance the quality of public health in tropical regions.

Expanding Cooperation

To expand cooperation networks with national and international universities, governments, industries, professions, and organizations to support the quality of education, research, and community service.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Health Administration and Policy

Community Health Administration/Epidemiology

Hospital Administration

Public Nutrition Policy and Administration

Industrial Environmental Health Management

Occupational Health

Promoting Health and Behavioral Science

Disaster Health Management

Reproductive Health

Contact Us
Master's Program in Public Health Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Universitas No. 21, Kampus USU Medan, 20155

(061) - 8213221

s2kesmas@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara