MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
For The First Time, USU Hosts The 34th National Student Scientific Week (PIMNAS)
For the First Time, USU Hosts the 34th National Student Scientific Week (PIMNAS)
Published At
14 July 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
For the First Time, USU Hosts the 34th National Student Scientific Week (PIMNAS)
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 14 July 2021

MEDAN - USU Public Relations: The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) has been appointed as the host for the 34th National Student Scientific Week (PIMNAS) for the first time. The decision was issued by the Indonesian Republic of Ministry of Education and Culture through a letter sent by the National Achievement Center No.0989/J3/KM.02.13/2021 regarding the Determination of Hosts for the 2021 Higher Education Level Competitions.

The 34th PIMNAS is scheduledtotake place in October 2021 for 5 days at the USU Padang Bulan Campus in Medan.The opening of the national event is planned tobeattended by Minister of Education, Culture, Research and Technology, Nadiem Anwar Makarim, leaders of state universities throughout Indonesia and regional heads in North Sumatra.

This was conveyed by the Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos, M.Si, in his office, Wednesday (6/16/2021).Headmitted that he was very happy to receive the news, considering that National Student Scientific Week (Pimnas) is one of the prestigious national events that is a competition for scientific work for students from various universities throughout Indonesia.

“We are honored and grateful for the trust given to host the 34th PIMNAS.We hope that we can carry out these activities well and run smoothly until the end.In addition, we also hope that all 34th PIMNAS participants and invited guests will be able to feel comfortable and have a pleasant experience during the event," Dr. Mury said.

According to the Rector, USU's courage to offer tohostthe 34th National Student Science Week is actually not just trial and error.

"The experience that USU has gone through as a host in various national and international events has at least given us a strong enough confidence capital to be ready to host the 34th PIMNAS," said the Rector optimistically.

Previously, the feasibility and readiness of the Universitas Sumatera Utara as one of the universities that became a candidate tohostthe 34th PIMNAS had been directly assessed by the Belmawa (Excellence Program of Directorate General for Learning) Team of the Ministry of Education and Research and Technology who visited USU in May 2021.Both in terms of the availability of the main facilities and infrastructure that directly support the implementation of the 34th PIMNAS activities, access to transportation and other things consideredwillaffect the smooth implementation of activities.

USU's Vice Rector I, Dr. Edy Ikhsan, SH, M.Hum, who was met on different occasions also emphasized that USUwoulddo all its best to prepare for the 34th PIMNAS.

“Being the host of an event of national and international level is the dream of every institution, including the Universitas Sumatera Utara.Where in the position as the host, very serious preparation is needed so that allactivities that take place in the event can run smoothly, from beginning to end, and provide comfort and satisfaction for all parties involved in it, "said Edy Ikhsan.

USU Vice Rector I added, for the readiness of physical facilities, USU is supported by more than 40 computer laboratories, more than 10 multimedia rooms, more than 10 multipurpose rooms with a capacity of 300 people, an auditorium with a capacity of 3,000 people and parking pockets that can accommodate various types of vehicles in large numbers. .

“The internet network in the campus environment is also very stable and controlled to secure the implementation of large events.In addition, access to the Universitas Sumatera Utara is also very easy to reach, and has many quality accommodations around the campus," he said.

Meanwhile, the Head of the USU Preparation Team to Host the 34th PIMNAS, Doli M Jafar Dalimunthe, SE, M.Si, who was contacted by telephone stated that USU's readiness to host the upcoming 34th PIMNAS was almost complete.The USU PIMNAS team has also prepared a theme thatwill becarried out in the activity, namely "Towards a Golden Indonesia through Collaboration for Innovation in the Frame of Local Wisdom."Besides the logo and mascot for PIMNAS 34th has also been provided, namely in the form of Beo Nias (Nias parrot) mascot bythe name ofBeni.

For information, USU has hosted several national and international events, including;IMT-GT Varsity Carnival, National Work of Ministry of Education, Culture, Research and Technology, 2018, UI Green Metric Workshop for Western Indonesia Region, 3rd United Erasmus+ Training, Community Service Institution (LPPM) of incorporated Government University Coordination Meeting, National Student Creativity and Innovation Exhibition Week, and several others.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Bayu Nugraha - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara