MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Mathematics And Natural Sciences
Doctoral Program In Mathematical Science
Doctoral Program
Mathematical Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

As an excellent education provider in the field of mathematics, the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Doctoral Program in Mathematical Science has been established since 2009 with a focus on developing superior mathematics research, especially in the fields of optimization and operations research.

Supported by the best teaching team consisting of professors and associate professors, this program aims to produce doctoral candidates who are able to compete nationally and internationally in the fields of optimization and operations research. Through strong cooperation between educational institutions, the government, and the private sector, students of the Doctoral Program in Mathematical Science can produce internationally recognized scientific work.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

dok-math@usu.ac.id

Doctoral Program in Mathematical Science

Accredited Very Good

021/SK/LAMSAMA/Akred/D/IV/2023

Vision of Doctoral Program in Mathematical Science

To become one of the leading Mathematics Research development centers in the field of Optimization and Operations Research in the Southeast Asia region by 2024.

Mission of Doctoral Program in Mathematical Science

Quality

Organizing a quality doctoral education program to produce competitive graduates in the field of optimization and operations research.

Research

Developing excellent research programs in operations and optimization research so as to produce scientific papers with international reputation.

Public Service

Carrying out community service based on the development of operations research and optimization in planning and decision making quantitatively in community service activities.

Collaboration

Establish and carry out collaboration with educational institutions, government and private institutions in the application and development of operations research.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Pure Mathematics

Statistics

Operations Research

Computational Mathematics

Contact Us
Doctoral Program in Mathematical Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Bioteknologi No.1 Kampus USU, Padang Bulan, Medan Baru - 20155

(+62) - 618213250

dok-math@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara