MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Agriculture
Master's Program In Food Science
Master Program
Food Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Master's Program in Food Science is an advanced study program in food science aimed at university graduates in agriculture. In this program, students are focused on an in-depth study of food science, covering aspects such as food processing, food safety, nutrition, and innovation in the food industry. The goal is to produce experts in food science who are able to understand and manage various challenges related to food production, distribution, and consumption.

The USU Master's Program in Food Science is accredited Very Good and emphasizes teaching all aspects of food science, whether physical, biological, or chemical. The program is particularly appealing to individuals who have an interest and talent in food research and development. Graduates from this program have broad career prospects, including in the fields of research & development and food quality experts. The degree obtained for students who complete this study program is Master of Science (M.Si.).

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

mag-pangan@usu.ac.id

Master's Program in Food Science

Accredited Very Good

159/SK/BAN-PT/Ak.Ppj/M/I/2024

Vision of Master's Program in Food Science

To become a study program that can improve knowledge, research, and expertise in the field of food science for the development of the national food industry, especially in the utilization of local resources.

Mission of Master's Program in Food Science

Education

Providing education for the mastery of theories and concepts in the field of food science, especially those related to industrial development by utilizing local resources.

Research

Conducting research by applying food science theories and concepts, especially research related to industrial development by utilizing local resources.

Community Service

Conducting community service activities in collaboration with various parties including institutions, industries, and communities primarily to apply the research results of lecturers and students based on the development of the food industry by utilizing local resources.

Science Development

Develop and apply science and technology in the field of food and agricultural products in accordance with the development of science and technology in order to improve the development of food and agricultural products through research by lecturers in collaboration with industry by maximizing the use of local resources in North Sumatra.

BINTANG

Producing academicians who have the characteristics of BINTANG.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Food Chemistry and Analysis

Microbiology and Food Safety

Food Process Engineering

Food Science

Food Biochemistry and Nutrition

Contact Us
Master's Program in Food Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Dr. A. Sofian No. 3, USU Padang Bulan Campus, Medan City, North Sumatra, 20155

+62618213181

mag-pangan@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara