MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
University Activity
USU Lecturers Educate SMEs About Quality Assurance System
USU Lecturers Educate SMEs About Quality Assurance System
Published At
19 June 2023
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
USU Lecturers Educate SMEs About Quality Assurance System
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Monday, 19 June 2023

The material was presented to increase the knowledge of small and medium industry (IKM) actors in Gunungsitoli City regarding the requirements that must be met to provide security and comfort guarantees for consumers to use the products they produce.

PUBLIC RELATIONS: Lecturer of the Faculty of Agriculture, Universitas Sumatera Utara, Prof. Dr. Ir. Elisa Julianti, M.Si, was one of the speakers in the Forum Group Discussion (FGD) Optimizing the Potential of Nias Natural Resources Through Empowerment of MSMEs, which took place at the Kaliki Hotel Hall, Gunungsitoli City, Tuesday (13/06/2023). The FGD was initiated by PT Pelabuhan Indonesia (Persero) in collaboration with Universitas Sumatera Utara and the Nias Regency Government.

Prof. Elisa provided education through material entitled "Understanding Quality, Shelf Life, Distribution Permits and Halal Certification" in front of FGD participants consisting of MSME actors, elements of the Nias Regency Government and other partners. The material was presented to increase the knowledge of small and medium industry (IKM) actors in Gunungsitoli City regarding the requirements that must be met to provide security and comfort guarantees for consumers to use the products they produce. The responsibility for consumer safety and comfort in consuming products is protected by Law No. 8 of 1999 concerning Consumer Protection.

In her presentation, Prof. Elisa explained, among other things, the concept of a quality assurance system, food safety and halal certification that MSME actors must carry out for every product produced and marketed to the public. According to her, these efforts provide confidence to consumers (with evidence) that the products produced are in accordance with what was promised. Where the HACCP certificate proves food safety. HACCP or Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point is a quality assurance system with scientific, rational, and systematic work procedures that are useful for identifying potential hazards and establishing safety control procedures that focus on prevention aspects.

In addition, Prof. Elisa also reminded MSME actors that Indonesia has a majority Muslim population, so halal certification and halal labels are needed, which will guarantee safety for consumers to consume food/drink products so that they do not conflict with religious rules. ISO 9000 is a series of quality system standards created by the International Organization for Standardization, which plays an important role in quality systems. Specifically related to the control of production or service steps in the scope of products or services.

The National Accreditation Committee Product Certification Scheme is a national product certification system. Manufacturers whose products are certified under this scheme are given a license to use the SNI (Indonesian National Standard) Mark. Product certificates using the SNI mark are given by an accredited product certification body to companies that meet KAN requirements after systematic inspection and supervision. A product certification body will be appointed if an accredited product certification body is not yet available.

"The most important requirement for obtaining a product certificate is to maintain product quality consistently and meet the standards set by SNI. This is proven through the results of quality testing of product samples by accredited testing laboratories, and competent officers take test samples," explained Prof. Elisa.

The legality of IKM products for food consists of the Household Industry Food Production Certificate (SPP IRT) issued by the Health Office, and the Halal certificate/label issued by the Halal Product Guarantee Organizing Agency (BPJPH). The Halal certification and assurance process is carried out by the Halal Inspection Institution (LPH), where halal inspection is carried out according to the HAS 23000 standard. While the determination of the halal fatwa is issued by the Indonesian Ulema Council (MUI). MD or Domestic Food is also required, a permit number for large food industries from within the country, issued by the Food and Drug Supervisory Agency (BPOM). (RJ)

University Activity
Community Service Activity
Find More Activity
University Activity
USU Lecturer Concern on the Extinction of Orangutan Tapanuli
University Activity
USU professor turns shrimp shell waste into face serum
University Activity
USU Research Collaboration Lowers Stunting Rate in Sergai

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara