MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU PIMNAS Gathering Night: Familiar In Malay Traditional Sheen
USU PIMNAS Gathering Night: Familiar in Malay Traditional Sheen
Published At
05 November 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU PIMNAS Gathering Night: Familiar in Malay Traditional Sheen
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 05 November 2021

The Rector also hopes that the atmosphere of intimacy in the Malay cultural arts will become the spirit of sportsmanship in the national student competition event. "From this event, we hope to emerge young scientists who are actively innovating to build the country," he said.

USU PR - The 34th National Student Scientific Week (PIMNAS) at USU began with a Friendly Night at Maimun Palace, Monday (10/25/2021). The guests from representatives of ministries, universities and the jury were treated to a variety of typical Malay arts that characterize the city of Medan. The invited guests and USU leaders dressed in warm Malay traditional clothes formed a friendly relationship which was enlivened by reciprocal rhymes by the host and dances.

Starting his speech with a rhyme, USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin hoped that the guests who were present in Medan would get special memories. "Tonight we have seen the luster of the Malays who are the indigenous people of Medan," he said.

Mury said, Medan is a city resulting from a cross between various ethnic cultures which makes it superior and unique when compared to other cities in Indonesia.

"As a multicultural city, Medan offers a variety of cultural and culinary arts, historical buildings and a society full of peace and tranquility," he said.

The Rector also hopes that the atmosphere of intimacy in the Malay cultural arts will become the spirit of sportsmanship in the national student competition event. "From this event, we hope to emerge young scientists who are actively innovating to build the country," he said.

Chairman of the Sultan Ma'moen Al Rasyid Foundation (YASMAR), Ir. T. Reizan Ivansyah also welcomed the invited guests. "Hopefully what we present gives happiness," he said.

Acting Head of the National Achievement Center, Asep Sukmayadi, S.IP, M.Si emphasized that what USU did in this friendly night gave a beautiful impression that was prosperous.

"Thanks to the USU Rector, let's give a big round of applause. The USU PIMNAS is very lively even though it was held in the midst of a pandemic," he said.

Asep emphasized that PIMNAS activities are expected to produce superior seeds that are able to produce outstanding young intellectuals. "And this is not only done at the student level, but also for elementary, middle and high school students," he said.

The Acting Head of Puspresnas emphasized that the entertainment that was served tonight was expected to give an injection of enthusiasm in the competition. "Relaxed but serious, and hopefully the race can run smoothly without any obstacles," he said.

Asep also appreciated Malay culture which is rich in rhymes, dances and songs. According to him, the USU PIMNAS friendly evening gave a meaningful impression that was not easily forgotten.

Chairman of the USU 34th PIMNAS Jury Prof. Dr. Ir. Nuni Gofar, MS said that 108 universities across Indonesia participated in the PIMNAS participants with 735 teams selected from 67 thousand proposals.

"Of course I hope that tomorrow's participants will give their best and can achieve as much as possible. Thank you to USU for presenting this impressive variety of arts and culture," he said.

The event was attended by Vice Rector I Dr. Edy Ikhsan, MA, Vice Rector II Muhammad Arifin Nasution, S.Sos., MSP, Vice Rector III Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Z Hasibuan, Vice Rector IV Prof. Opim Salim Sitompul, Vice Rector V Ir. Luhut Sihombing, MP, Secretary Prof Fidel Ganis Siregar University and representatives of the local government were filled with plain flour events, a brief history screening of the Maimun Palace and Malay ronggeng dances. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara