MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Engineering
Undergraduate Program In Electrical Engineering
Undergraduate Program
Electrical Engineering
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Undergraduate Program in Electrical Engineering is a study program that aims to equip students with knowledge and skills in designing, developing, and maintaining electronic and electrical systems. The faculty places a focus on developing students' abilities to become leaders and innovators in the electrical engineering industry, as well as making a positive contribution in facing the challenges of modern technology.

Our vision is to become an International Standard Undergraduate Program in Electrical Engineering in 2024 that excels in the fields of energy, telecommunications, and computer engineering. Join us at the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Undergraduate Program in Electrical Engineering to begin a journey in collaborating with electrical engineering industry experts. Upon completion of this study program, students will be awarded the Bachelor of Engineering (S.T) degree.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

dte@usu.ac.id

Undergraduate Program in Electrical Engineering

Accredited Unggul

2208/SK/BAN-PT/AK-ISK/S/IV/2022

Vision of Undergraduate Program in Electrical Engineering

Becoming an Internationally Standardized Undergraduate Program in Electrical Engineering in 2024 with Local Excellence in Energy, Telecommunications, and Computer Engineering.

Mission of Undergraduate Program in Electrical Engineering

Academic Education

Organizing professional academic education with a curriculum in line with the needs of the national labor market and the potential of the North Sumatra region.

Research

Organizing basic, applied, and innovative research that is beneficial to the advancement of science and useful for society.

Community Service

Organizing community service by dedicating expertise in the field of knowledge possessed.

Lecturer Competence

Improving the competence of the lecturers through further studies and training.

Link and Match

Fostering links and matches between universities and the industrial sector.

Learning Facilities

Improve the quantity and quality of learning facilities, laboratories, and extracurricular facilities.

International Recognition

Obtaining international recognition through international accreditation, as mandated by the Ministry of Education and Culture.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Energy

Telecommunications

Computer Engineering

Contact Us
Undergraduate Program in Electrical Engineering
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Politeknik, Padang Bulan, Kec. Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20222

(+62) - 618211236 / 618213250

dte@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara