MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Rector Activates Anti-Drug Students And Task Force At USU
Rector Activates Anti-Drug Students and Task Force at USU
Published At
13 October 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Rector Activates Anti-Drug Students and Task Force at USU
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 13 October 2021

Specifically related to the activation of the anti-drug students and task force, the Rector explained that there used to be one but now it is on vacuum. The incident a few days ago became USU's momentum to reactivate the task force at the university level, while at the faculty we created anti-drug students.

USU PR - The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) strictly prohibits drug trafficking on campus. Not only collaborating with the National Narcotics Agency (BNN) of North Sumatra Province (Provsu) to take firm action against drug abusers on campus, the Rector will also form a Task Force (Satgas) and Anti-Drug Students.

"Regarding the arrest of a number of students, we will continue to coordinate with the National Narcotics Agency and apply sanctions according to their portion, if he uses the sanctions, the sanctions will be suspended if the dealer is certainly more severe, namely dropping out. After that we will apply standard operating procedures (SOP) for student activities at night on campus," said USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin in his statement, Tuesday (10/12/2021).

The Rector explained that the use of classrooms at night during face-to-face meetings would be limited. However, if there are students who want to do positive activities, they can ask permission from the relevant parties to use the existing facilities.

Specifically related to the activation of the anti-drug task force and students, the Rector explained that in fact there used to be but now it is on vacuum. The incident a few days ago became USU's momentum to reactivate the task force at the university level, while at the faculty we created anti-drug students.

"The formation of the task force is centered in places that are prone to drug abuse, so we really have to be serious about eradicating drugs on campus. There should be no tolerance anymore, students who roam at night must be prohibited, except for positive productive activities," he said.

Supporting the formation of anti-drug students, the Rector will also involve all student elements such as student government, student activity units, outstanding students and so on. "It is these students who will later campaign against drugs, involve alumni in their activities and prohibit and anticipate alumni who bring drugs to campus," he said.

While related to the Faculty of Cultural Sciences (FIB), the Rector confirmed that uninhabited buildings would be leveled. Like the building in the back near the field, the rectorate will tear down and build an open theater stage that can be controlled by many people. In line with the Rector, Deputy Rector I Dr Edy Ikhsan accompanied by Head of Public Relations Amelia Meutia, MPsi emphasized that the reactivation of the anti-drug task force and students was USU's effort to prevent and clean up drug trafficking on campus.

"In addition, we are tightening security, prohibiting students from staying on campus, adding security personnel and tightening monitoring in faculties that are prone to drug abuse," said Edy Ikhsan. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - PR

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara