MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
MKWK Fair USU 2022 Exibition Of PBL Learning Outcomes
MKWK Fair USU 2022 Exibition of PBL Learning Outcomes
Published At
28 June 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
MKWK Fair USU 2022 Exibition of PBL Learning Outcomes
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 28 June 2022

The Rector hopes that the project-based MKWK learning program at this university will be able to play a role in shaping the character and personality of students. As expected from the National Education System and USU's Strategic Plan, namely having a BINTANG character; Fear of God Almighty in the frame of diversity, Innovative integrity, tough and wise.

PR USU - Universitas Sumatera Utara held the Compulsory Curriculum Course (MKWK) Fair 2022, which is the result of Project-Based Learning (PBL) and Case Method (CM) based learning activities. The activity was held at the USU Auditorium and broadcast online via the USU Official YouTube on Thursday (23/06/2022).

Rector of USU Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si said, the 2022 MKWK Fair is an exhibition event for USU's MKWK learning projects. Motivating and encouraging students to stay enthusiastic in their work and to pioneer the entrepreneurial spirit as part of developing their creativity is indispensable.

"This activity is one of the efforts taken by USU to realize USU's vision and mission, which requires a synergistic movement between USU's academic community, namely MKWK lecturers and students," he explained.

The Rector hopes that the project-based MKWK learning program at this university will be able to play a role in shaping the character and personality of students. As expected from the National Education System and USU's Strategic Plan, namely having a BINTANG character; Fear of God Almighty in the frame of diversity, Innovative integrity, tough and wise.

"I hope that the works that will be displayed at the 2022 MKWK Fair are able to encourage other USU students to improve their quality and hone their skills and expertise so that they are in line with the demands of the times and the world of work," he said.

Chairman of the Committee for MKWK 2022 Prof. Dr. Timbangen Sembiring, M.Sc said that the first-year students need character training that can instill togetherness and star values ​​which are the characteristics of USU. MKWK lectures, which are arranged with a blended class system with participants from various study programs and faculties, aim to cultivate the nature of the alma mater, eliminate the superiority of one another and become an arena for building relationships among students.

“Starting and designing the dream of becoming a successful person and the desire to get the best achievement requires a quality debriefing process. The first-year curriculum structure consists of four courses, namely Pancasila Education, Citizenship, Indonesian Language and Religion," said Prof. weigh.

He added that the group of MKWK lecturers agreed to raise the theme of the project activity, namely tolerance between religious communities. Students are divided into various groups and solve problems that occur in the community. The results of each group's discussion are outlined in an activity proposal where the best proposal will become the forerunner for the Student Creativity Program.

“This proposal or project is one of the outputs of the first to eight meetings. Furthermore, at the 9th and 14th meetings, student groups designed activities in the form of flyers, debates, FGDs, poetry, dances, etc., which contained messages related to the themes raised," he continued.

There are around 802 student project results in videos on YouTube and Instagram. After going through the jury's assessment, at this MKWK Fair, the performances of the best teams from each activity will be shown.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara