MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Won 1st Place And Best Speaker In The Pancasila Debate Competition
USU Won 1st Place and Best Speaker in the Pancasila Debate Competition
Published At
30 September 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Won 1st Place and Best Speaker in the Pancasila Debate Competition
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 30 September 2022

Kemi Suranta said the debate team was formed following a selection carried out from organizations under the auspices of the USU Faculty of Law, which represented USU. All three are in the same organization, namely the Meriam Debating Club (MDC).

USU - The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) student debate team won the Pancasila Debate Competition, which was held directly by the Pancasila University Jakarta. In the competition which was held from September 24 to 25, 2022, they won 1st place and the title of Best Speaker, beating 24 other contestants from universities throughout Indonesia who took part in the competition.

 The USU debate team consisted of Kemi Suranta Tarigan (2020), Habiba Wahyu Widayani Sirait (2020) and Qasfi Radifan Amran Harahap (2021), all three from the Faculty of Law, Universitas Sumatera Utara.

Kemi Suranta said the debate team was formed following a selection carried out from organizations under the auspices of the USU Faculty of Law, which represented USU. All three are in the same organization, namely the Meriam Debating Club (MDC).

“At that time, the selection of delegates for the legal debate competition was opened by Pancasila University. Coincidentally, the three of us were chosen as delegates representing the USU Faculty of Law. Since then, we have started training with the assistance of the coaches at the Meriam Debating Club,” Kemi revealed the beginning of the formation of the debate team.

According to Kemi, the preparations made to face the competition were quite long. “Starting from drafting the motions to be debated, competing in the preliminary round using a video debate by beating 20 other teams, until we became semifinalists who had to go to Jakarta to compete at Pancasila University. No less than 1 month of preparation until the final round on September 25. There are about 3 motions that are debated and 13 materials that must be prepared,” he explained.

Regarding the debate material, in the preliminary round they had to debate on the theme "Legalization of the Death Penalty for Perpetrators of Sexual Violence." Then in the semifinals, the theme of the debate was “Formation of the Tax Omnibus” and in the final round the theme was “The Urgency of Amendment to Law No. 12 of 2011 concerning the Establishment of Legislations.”

 Keni said the reason why he was interested in the debate competition is because the debate gave him the opportunity to improve his ability to speak in public, to hone more critical and courageous thinking. Arguing also teaches to be sensitive to the opponent's arguments, to address issues that are developing and to increase self-confidence.

 “Debate is a place to exchange ideas, a place to dare to speak and argue and hone a critical mindset. We are required to be sensitive to the opponent's arguments, and must show a good speaking attitude, teamwork, as well as strong and undeniable material. All of these things are the main attraction in the world of debate," he said.

 Besides the Universitas Sumatera Utara which won 1st place in the Pancasila Debate Competition, the 2nd place was won by Brawijaya University and the 3rd place was won by Brawijaya University. (RJ - ©ULC)

Author: Renny Julia Harahap - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Achievement
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara