MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
SCORA PEMA FK USU 2024 Social Service
SCORA PEMA FK USU 2024 Social Service
Published At
05 November 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
SCORA PEMA FK USU 2024 Social Service
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Tuesday, 05 November 2024

SCORA PEMA FK USU 2024 Social Service In his remarks, Prof. Dr. dr. Muhammad Fidel Ganis Siregar M.Ked (OG), Sp.O.G, Subsp.F.E.R, as a representative of the rectorate as well as the supervisor of the activity, thanked all parties in the area who had supported this activity. He said that this social service activity was not only an opportunity to serve the community but also an opportunity to better understand the needs of the community directly.

HUMAS USU - Carrying the theme “Unite Steps to Collaborate in Realizing the Health of the Nation,” Student Government (PEMA) Faculty of Medicine (FK) Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held a Standing Committee on Reproductive Health Including AIDS (SCORA) Social Service at SD Negeri 056616 Suka Mulia Village on Saturday (2/11/2024).

 

SCORA is one of the work programs of the community development division of PEMA FK USU, which consists of counseling activities, conducting general medicine, and carrying out mass circumcision. SCORA PEMA FK USU's social service has been established since 2012 with a focus on reproductive health and HIV/AIDS. This social service aims to have a positive impact not only in the treatment of diseases but also in increasing public knowledge about health and lifestyle changes.

 

In his speech, Prof. Dr. dr. Muhammad Fidel Ganis Siregar M.Ked(OG), Sp.O.G, Subsp.F.E.R as the representative of the rectorate as well as the supervisor of the activity thanked all parties in the area who had supported this activity. He said this social service activity was not only an opportunity to serve the community, but also an opportunity to be able to better understand the needs of the community directly.

 

“We realize that health is the main foundation in realizing welfare and progress,” said Prof. Fidel.

 

On the same occasion, Prof. Fidel explained that SCORA plays an important role in aligning the USU Rector's vision and mission regarding community service.

 

“Of course, this is very much in line with the vision and mission of the Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara to carry out community service activities,” he added.

 

As the SCORA Advisor, Prof. Fidel hopes that the social service activities that have been carried out for 12 years in the future can still be carried out regularly as a means of learning for students.

 

Vice Dean 1 of FK USU, Dr. dr. Delyuzar, M.Ked(PA), Sp.PA(K) said this social service activity was not only about treatment but also as a medium to learn to adapt to the community.

 

“Actually, it's not about learning medicine, but learning the society,” said Delyuzar.

 

Considering that the need for health workers in the regions is still minimal, he invited all parties to support the students so that they do not only focus on working in urban areas, but also contribute to areas that need health services.

 

“Because not all of them have to be in urban areas, but the distribution of our doctors is indeed a problem, many of which have not been served in the regions,” explained Delyuzar.

 

The head of the committee, Muhammad Bintang Athalarik, explained that the social service was held for two days. On the first day, mass circumcision will be held involving the Department of Surgery, while on the second day, general treatment will be held involving eight departments, including the Department of Internal Medicine, ENT, and others. He also said that the target participants for the general treatment were 160 participants, and for the circumcision, 80 participants were registered, both elementary school students and villagers.

 

“We hope that many participants will attend because the benefits obtained from this event are enormous, both for the community and students,” he said.

 

With this series of activities, FK USU seeks to improve the quality of public health services while providing valuable experience for students in carrying out the duties of the medical profession. This activity is expected to have a positive impact and strengthen the relationship between medical students and the community.

 

News
SDGs 4
SDGs
SDGs 3
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara