MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Socializes PPID Titled Information Disclosure
USU Socializes PPID Titled Information Disclosure
Published At
12 January 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Socializes PPID Titled Information Disclosure
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 12 January 2023

"In its public relations, USU will be capable of providing the public with information and socializing and applying it responsibly and effectively. Given the mandate for the availability of information, it must be enabled by Universitas Sumatera Utara's appointed officials so that the public can obtain the required information swiftly, transparently, credibly, and precisely "The Secretary of USU stated.

USU Public Relations - University of North Sumatra (USU) held a Socialization of USU's Information Management and Documentation Officer (PPID) with the theme "Public Information Openness, Everyone Has the Right to Know". This activity was held in the Theater Room of USU's Faculty of Social and Political Sciences on Monday, (19/12/2022).

This PPID socialization aims to increase insight, knowledge about PPID. Furthermore, it is also to improve public information services to the public, as well as maintain togetherness, harmony and trust between public bodies and the public who require the delivery of information quickly, on time, easily and reliably.

Secretary of the University of North Sumatra Prof. Dr. dr. Muhammad Fidel Ganis Siregar M.Ked(OG), Sp.O.G, Subsp.F.E.R said that the availability of information must be facilitated by North Sumatra University officials to ensure that the public gets the information they need quickly, transparently, credible and accurately.

"In public relations, USU will later be able to provide information that can be accessed by the public within USU and socialize and implement it properly and responsibly. Given the mandate for the availability of this information, it must be facilitated by designated officials within the University of North Sumatra so as to ensure that the public can get the information they need quickly, transparently, credible and accurately," said the USU University Secretary.

Supporting the statement of the USU University Secretary, Head of Public Relations, Promotion, and Protocol of the University of North Sumatra Amalia Meutia M.Psi., Psychologist explained that USU had just received an informative title. Therefore USU will continue to provide even better public information service standards.

"As we just received some time ago, that USU is a public agency that has received an informative title. So from that title, it is known that USU has indeed provided good standards of public information services, namely those that are transparent, accountable and accurate, "said USU's Head of Public Relations, Promotion and Protocol.

In this socialization event, the Chairman of the Information Commission of North Sumatra Province was also invited as a guest speaker. Dr. Abdul Haris, SH., M.Kn explained that if a public agency is overwritten by deviant news, then it can be overcome by managing it, then it is assessed whether the news is appropriate to inform the public or not in accordance with Law No. 14 of 2008.

"So there is indeed information that is indeed distorted, right? Then we just manage it, we manage it, then we discuss what is allowed and what is not allowed, that's it. So that's why I said earlier that there is information that is excluded, in Article 17 of Law No. 14 of 2008," said the Head of the North Sumatra Provincial Information Commission.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: - - Humas

News
Management
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara