MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Pharmacy
Doctoral Program In Pharmaceutical Science
Doctoral Program
Pharmaceutical Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Doctoral Program in Pharmaceutical Science is the highest level of education in pharmaceutical science at USU. The Doctoral Program in Pharmaceutical Science (PSDIF) is supported by good facilities and supported by professional teaching staff who are experts in their fields.

The main focus of this program is research in various pharmaceutical fields such as pharmacology, clinical and community pharmacy, pharmaceutics, pharmaceutical biology, and pharmaceutical chemistry. PSDIF is committed to providing students with the ability to master in-depth knowledge in pharmaceutical sciences as well as the skills to conduct research independently. Research results from lecturers and students in this program have been successfully published in reputable international journals.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

s3ilmufarmasi@usu.ac.id

Doctoral Program in Pharmaceutical Science

Accredited Baik Sekali

0451/LAM-PTKes/Akr/Dok/VI/2022

Vision of Doctoral Program in Pharmaceutical Science

To become a Doctor of Pharmacy Study Program that excels in the fields of Science, Clinical and Community Pharmacy, and Pharmaceutical Technology with local characteristics of international standards in 2024.

Mission of Doctoral Program in Pharmaceutical Science

Education

Organizing the innovative and quality Doctoral Program in Pharmaceutical Science education based on natural ingredients research to educate and empower the nation in the field of pharmacy, maintain national integrity, and have an international outlook.

Research

Increasing the quantity, quality, and diversity of natural materials research in the fields of pharmaceutical science, clinical, and community, as well as pharmaceutical technology so that it is worthy of being published in internationally reputable journals indexed by Scopus, Thomson Reuter, and other international indexers and can be applied amid society.

Community Service

Implementing community service in the form of national and international collaborations.

Study Opportunity

Expanding opportunities for the Indonesian and international community to study and gain knowledge at the Doctoral Program in Pharmaceutical Science.

Development of Science

Responding to the latest developments in science and technology in the field of pharmaceutical science.

Partnership

Collaborating with various parties that can improve quality in the fields of education, research, and community service.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Pharmaceutical Biology

Pharmaceutical Chemistry

Pharmacology

Pharmaceutical Science

Contact Us
Doctoral Program in Pharmaceutical Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Tri Dharma No. 5, 4th Entrance of the USU Padang Bulan Campus

+62618223558

s3ilmufarmasi@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara