MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Economics And Business
Doctoral Program In Economic Science
Doctoral Program
Economic Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Doctoral Program in Economic Science at Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is an advanced economics study covering various aspects, including Economic Theory, Macro and microeconomics, Econometrics, Public Policy, Management, Accounting, and Economic Development. This program aims to produce graduates who can develop knowledge, technology, and art that is innovative, creative, and implementative, as established in 2009. They are also expected to have the ability to conduct original and useful research for society and have a good reputation at the national and international levels.

The vision of this study program is to become a leading doctoral program and a role model in the research and development of science and technology, as well as producing graduates who excel in economics in line with leading universities in ASEAN in 2030. The students who take part in the USU Doctoral Program in Economic Science are expected to become agents of change who can overcome complex economic science challenges. Those who complete this study program will earn a Doctoral degree (Dr.).

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

dok-ekonomi@usu.ac.id

Doctoral Program in Economic Science

Accredited Excellent

No. 554/DE/A.5/AR.10/VII/2023

Vision of Doctoral Program in Economic Science

" To be known as a leading Doctoral Study Program and a role model in the research and development of science and technology, as well as producing graduates who excel in the field of economics equivalent to leading universities in ASEAN in 2030."

Mission of Doctoral Program in Economic Science

Education

Carrying out the educational process, research activities and the application of economics systematically, comprehensively and sustainably towards improving human values and the welfare of the wider community.

Research

Increasing the culture of mastery of the latest science and technology and scientific research capabilities is marked by an increase in national and international publications.

Cooperations

Fostering and expanding scientific cooperation with various leading universities and other institutions in Indonesia and ASEAN.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Monetary and Banking Economics

Development Planning

International Economics and Trade

Contact Us
Doctoral Program in Economic Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

JL. Prof T. M. Hanafiah, Kampus USU (Fakultas Ekonomi dan Bisnis, Gedung Pascasarjana Ilmu Ekonomi) Padang Bulan, Kec. Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20155

061-8218532

dok-ekonomi@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara