MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Hosts Green Harmony Forum Talkshow, Encourages Collaboration For Environmental Preservation
USU Hosts Green Harmony Forum Talkshow, Encourages Collaboration for Environmental Preservation
Published At
12 August 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
USU Hosts Green Harmony Forum Talkshow, Encourages Collaboration for Environmental Preservation
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Monday, 12 August 2024

"I hope that from our discussions, we can all gain new insights and inspiration to take more concrete actions to preserve and protect the environment," Prof. Muryanto said.

 

USU PR—Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), in partnership with PT Perkebunan Nusantara IV (PTPN IV) and BenihBaik.com, successfully held the Green Harmony Forum Inspirational Talkshow at the Digital Learning Center Building (DLCB) USU on Wednesday (July 31, 2024). The event aimed to foster collaboration among various parties to address environmental and sustainability issues.

 

USU Rector Prof. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., representing the entire USU academic community, expressed gratitude to PT Perkebunan Nusantara IV and BenihBaik.com for initiating the talkshow. He also emphasized the importance of collaboration in tackling environmental problems.

 

"I hope that from our discussions, we can all gain new insights and inspiration to take more concrete actions to preserve and protect the environment," Prof. Muryanto said.

 

As an institution of higher education, USU is committed to producing graduates who are not only competent but also environmentally conscious. The rector hopes that the talk show will provide valuable insights and inspiration for the USU academic community to take tangible steps in environmental preservation. Additionally, the event is expected to be the beginning of a closer collaboration between universities, government, and various stakeholders to create a greener and more harmonious environment.

 

BenihBaik.com Founder Andy F. Noya explained that this was the first talk show of its kind and hopes it will serve as a model for other PTPNs.

 

"Yes, this talk show is being held for the first time, and I hope it can become a role model for other PTPNs," Andy said.

 

Meanwhile, Jatmiko K. Sentosa, President Director of PTPN IV PalmCo, explained that this collaboration was based on efforts to address negative perceptions of palm oil and to highlight the positive potential that can be realized. PTPN IV hopes this collaboration will yield positive results in the future.

 

"Yes, there are still many negative perceptions about palm oil, but I see many positive aspects that can be taken, just like with BenihBaik, which is why I was interested in partnering with them," Jatmiko explained.

 

Public figure and environmental advocate Prisia Nasution expressed hopes that BenihBaik.com and PTPN IV would remain consistent and closely monitor each stage of the plant production process to ensure its quality.

 

"I hope they stay consistent with this green harmony and that we all monitor what’s being taken from the earth to ensure it's being done correctly," Prisia said.

 

As a follow-up, PTPN IV and BenihBaik.com will sign a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) and undertake tree planting along the Deli River and in various locations for fruit trees.

News
SDGs 15
SDGs 4
SDGs
SDGs 13
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara