MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
World Class Professor (WCP) Improves Standardization Of USU Professor
World Class Professor (WCP) Improves Standardization of USU Professor
Published At
20 June 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
World Class Professor (WCP) Improves Standardization of USU Professor
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 20 June 2022

Dr. Mohammad Sofwan Effendi, M.Ed said this workshop could improve the quality of knowledge and the ranking of local professors to become professors of international standard, as well as increase the contribution of USU professors to collaborate with foreign universities at the same or higher level.

PR USU - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held a Board of Professors Workshop entitled "World Class Professor (WCP) Series I" by inviting the Director of Human Resources, Director General of Higher Education, Dr. Mohammad Sofwan Effendi, M.Ed as resource person. The activity was held in the Senate Meeting Room of the USU Central Administration Building on Friday (17/06/2022).

Dr. Mohammad Sofwan Effendi, M.Ed said this workshop could improve the quality of knowledge and the ranking of local professors to become professors of international standard, as well as increase the contribution of USU professors to collaborate with foreign universities at the same or higher level.

“One of the factors is determined by indexation, which determines the quality of publications and research. The hope is that domestic and foreign professors collaborate on an ongoing basis so that in the end it will appoint young lecturers or prospective professors to be in their class," he said.

According to him, there are four outputs from this activity, namely joint publications or patents, increasing domestic accreditation with international standards at the study program to the university level, carrying out capacity building for USU lecturers at the professor level or below, and increasing scientific collaboration.

In addition to joint publications, there will be exchanges between lecturers, such as joint degrees or double degrees. The point is to build collaborations or partnerships between usu as an institution and partner universities abroad in the implementation of the tri dharma," he said.

On that occasion, USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos, M.Si said that the theme raised in this discussion forum was related not only to the development of the quality of university graduates and the role of USU Professors in improving the quality of academic services provided to university students. But also evaluating a return to targets and work programs related to increasing cooperation between universities worldwide.

"The World Class Professor Program will provide flexibility for lecturers to interact with well-known and superior professors, who are expected to be able to improve academic life, competence, and quality and contribute to the development of science and technology and strengthen the national innovation system," he said.

The Rector hopes that the Professors and the Board of Professors together can provide additional strengthening of academic reputation that will bring USU as an entrepreneurial university that is respected by the international community.

"In this forum, we all get good ideas, recommendations for the right program for us to adopt as performance targets and answer all the questions and needs that we need in the direction of the USU internationalization program," he hoped.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Management
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara