MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
55th Anniversary Of The Faculty Of Pharmacy
55th Anniversary of the Faculty of Pharmacy
Published At
25 October 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
55th Anniversary of the Faculty of Pharmacy
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Friday, 25 October 2024

“Hopefully, with this age, the Faculty of Pharmacy can further increase its contribution to producing pharmaceutical experts who are competent and professional to carry out their responsibilities,” said Vice Rector IV USU.

USU PR - The Universitas Sumatera Utara celebrated the 18th Anniversary of the Faculty of Pharmacy and the 55th Anniversary of the Department of Pharmacy. Carrying the theme “Soaring High for Drug Safety: Embracing Diversity and Excellence in Pharmacy” took place at the Faculty of Pharmacy Hall on Friday, (18/10/24).

 

In his speech, the university leadership represented by Vice Rector IV, Prof. Dr. Drs. Opim Salim Sitompul, M.Sc (MAS) congratulated the dean and the academic community, hoping that the faculty will increasingly contribute in producing competent pharmaceutical experts considering that the pharmaceutical industry is one of the most strategic sectors directly related to public health and quality of life.

 

“Hopefully, with this age, the Faculty of Pharmacy can further increase its contribution in producing pharmaceutical experts who are competent and professional to carry out their responsibilities,” said Vice Rector IV.

 

Dean of the Faculty of Pharmacy, Khairunnisa S.Si., M. Pharm., Ph. D., Apt expressed her gratitude for the support of all parties, and detailed the history and development of the Faculty which has experienced significant progress in facilities, infrastructure, and quality of education. The Faculty of Pharmacy has collaborated with several international universities.

 

“I especially hope that in the future, the Faculty of Pharmacy can exist in Indonesia, and we will try to go international,” said Khairunnisa.

 

The Dean of the Faculty of Pharmacy explained that currently the faculty has four study programs with excellent accreditation for two programs, and good accreditation for one other program. Total registered students reach 1,091, with more than 7,000 graduates since the establishment of the faculty. Various efforts continue to be made to improve the quality of graduates, including the preparation of student competency exams.

 

Chairperson of the Committee, Dr. Sumaiyah, S.Si., M.Si., Apt, explained that this event carries the theme of the importance of collaboration between academics, industry, and government in facing challenges in the pharmaceutical sector, including issues of drug safety and quality. She explained that the series of anniversary events consisted of competitions in the fields of science, arts, and sports, webinars filled by alumni, open sessions, and fun walks as a closing event.

 

News
SDGs
SDGs 3
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara