MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Pharmacy
Master's Program In Pharmaceutical Science
Master Program
Pharmaceutical Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Master's Program in Pharmaceutical Science was established in 2000 and has achieved a Very Good (A) accreditation rating. As an advanced level education program from the Undergraduate Program in Pharmacy, the main focus of our program is on pharmaceutical science, clinical, community, and pharmaceutical technology.

The commitment of the Master's Program in Pharmaceutical Science is to produce graduates who are innovative, tested, qualified, and have high integrity with international standards. The students are assisted by teaching staff who are nationally certified, widely experienced, and experts in the field of pharmacy. With the availability of 14 laboratories and 2 supporting units, graduates of this program are expected to smoothly manage, lead, and develop research in various fields of clinical pharmacy, pharmaceutical science, and pharmaceutical technology.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

s2ilmufarmasi@usu.ac.id

Master's Program in Pharmaceutical Science

Accredited Sangat Baik (A)

0475/LAM-PTKes/Akr/Mag/XI/2020

Vision of Master's Program in Pharmaceutical Science

To become a Master's Program in Pharmaceutical Sciences that excels in the fields of Science, Clinical and Community Pharmacy, and Pharmaceutical Technology with local characteristics of international standards in 2024.

Mission of Master's Program in Pharmaceutical Science

Education

Organizing an innovative and tested research-based Master's Program in Pharmaceutical Sciences and quality education in the fields of Science, Clinical and Community Pharmacy, and Pharmaceutical Technology to educate and empower the intellectual abilities of graduates in the field of pharmacy and maintain national integrity and international standards.

Research

Conducting research characterized by excellence in the fields of Pharmaceutical Science, Clinical and Community, and Pharmaceutical Technology that supports the development of research and technology based on Tropical Science and Medicine, Disease Priority, and Natural Resources.

Community Service

Implementing community service based on research results in the form of dissemination and community empowerment to improve welfare.

Diversification

Increasing the capacity and carrying capacity and diversifying the USU Master Program in Pharmaceutical Sciences.

Partnership

Expanding partnerships with various domestic and foreign institutions that support the implementation of the three pillars of higher education.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Pharmaceutical Biology

Pharmaceutical Chemistry

Pharmacology

Pharmaceutical Science

Contact Us
Master's Program in Pharmaceutical Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Tri Dharma No. 5, 4th Entrance of the USU Padang Bulan Campus

+62618223558

s2ilmufarmasi@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara