MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Medicine
Specialist-1 Program In Dermatology And Venereology
Spesialist-1 Program
Dermatology and Venereology
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Specialist Program in Dermatology and Venereology (Sp.K.K.) of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is one of the oldest specialist programs in Indonesia, established in 1980 and has now received A accreditation. This study program was established based on the aim of designing students with good academic abilities, knowledge, skills, and experience in supporting the medical code of ethics in Indonesia.

The Specialist Program in Dermatology and Venereology is staffed with competent lecturers with the best professional quality in their fields. Thanks to the hard work of the teaching staff and others, this program has successfully produced graduates capable of applying teachings in dermatological and venereal problems since the establishment of the Specialist Program in Dermatology and Venereology.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

dean.med@usu.ac.id

Specialist-1 Program in Dermatology and Venereology

Accredited Excellent

No. 0471/LAM-PTKes/Akr/Spe/VII/2023

Vision of Specialist-1 Program in Dermatology and Venereology

To realize the Dermatology and Venereology Study Program of the Universitas Sumatera Utara Faculty of Medicine to become an institution that provides quality dermatology and venereology specialist education in 2024, towards a center of excellence in tropical dermatology, preventive oncology, and cosmetic and aesthetic dermatology in Southeast Asia.

Mission of Specialist-1 Program in Dermatology and Venereology

Education

To improve the quality of education, research, and community service consistently, effectively, and efficiently, as well as in accordance with advances in science and technology in the fields of dermatology and venereology, with good governance and a good quality assurance system.

Agents of Change

To produce graduates who become agents of change as a force of modernization in the life of the wider community, who have scientific competence in dermatology and venereology, relevance, and strong competitiveness and behave as professional and ethical scholars.

Public Leadership

To realize public leadership through the usefulness of research and community service that impact epidemiology, especially tropical dermatology, preventive oncology, and cosmetic and aesthetic dermatology disorders, which are oriented on product and scientific development.

Cooperation

To realize an independent and professional study program in the management and development of institutions as well as build cooperation with other domestic and international institutions, especially in the fields of tropical dermatology, preventive oncology, and cosmetic and aesthetic dermatology.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Tropical Dermatology

Preventive Oncology

Cosmetic and Aesthetic Dermatology

Contact Us
Specialist-1 Program in Dermatology and Venereology
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Dr. Mansyur No. 5, Padang Bulan, Kec. Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20155

(061) - 8211045

dean.med@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara