MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Joins Erasmus+ Masters Meeting In Italy
USU Joins Erasmus+ Masters Meeting in Italy
Published At
25 April 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Joins Erasmus+ Masters Meeting in Italy
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 25 April 2022

One of the targets in this transformation is to improve the quality of USU so that it can compete at the international level. The Erasmus+ Master in Industry 4.0 Cooperation Project is one of these programs. Besides USU, other participants came from Italy, Greece, Cambodia, and Malaysia.

USU PR: Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) joined a meeting of the Erasmus+ Master in Industry 4.0 Cooperation Project participants. This meeting was held for the first time after being postponed several times since the end of 2019 on 20-22 April 2019 in Rome, Italy, which Unimarconi organized. Present on behalf of USU Rector Dr Muryanto Amin, S Sos, M Si, Coordinator of the Erasmus+ Master in Industry 4.0 Cooperation USU Emerson Pascawira Sinulingga ST., M.Sc. Ph.D, Dean of the Faculty of Engineering Dr. Ir. Fahmi S.T., M.Sc., IPM, and Head of the Department of Electrical Engineering Suherman ST., M.Comp., Ph.D.

As is known, USU is intensively implementing the Transformation Towards the Ultimate spirit, which was first promoted by the Rector of USU, Dr Muryanto Amin, S Sos, M Si. One of the targets in this transformation is to improve the quality of USU so that it can compete at the international level. The Erasmus+ Master in Industry 4.0 Cooperation Project is one of these programs. Besides USU, other participants came from Italy, Greece, Cambodia, and Malaysia.

The meeting aims to establish a master's study program in the field of Industry 4.0 in Indonesia, Cambodia, and Malaysia. The program will be multidisciplinary combining various technology sectors, such as cyber-physical systems, the internet of things, and big data analytics, with application areas, namely manufacturing, agriculture and health. In addition, plans to establish a supporting laboratory and a Virtual Learning Environment in the Industry 4.0 sector were also discussed. This cooperation itself is carried out in a span of 3 years.

The Chancellor of USU said that this program is vital for USU because it has become part of a group of international universities. According to him, this is very good for USU to strengthen its global campus network and contribute to managing the world of education.

"For USU itself, this cooperation program is very important to meet the targets of the 2020-2024 USU Strategic Plan and Key Performance Indicators (IKU). The target is to get competitive funds for international cooperation, international standard laboratories, a curriculum following the needs of the industrial revolution 4.0, study programs providing cross-disciplinary courses, and lecturers following international mobility. In June, the plan for a follow-up meeting will be held at USU, Medan.” said Muryanto Amin.

According to the cooperation agreement, USU is encouraged to have a laboratory in accordance with the needs of the Industrial Revolution 4.0, which is funded through the Erasmus + Industry 4.0 Cooperation. In addition, USU can implement the Independent Independent Learning Campus (MBKM) policy.

"MBKM can also be fulfilled by establishing new study programs that respond to world changes through collaboration with multilateral organizations and supported by 13 institutions/universities from 3 countries in ASEAN and 2 countries in Europe," he explained.

Unimarconi was chosen as the host because it is a university in Rome, Italy, which has received accreditation as a digital university from the Italian Government. It is actively involved in the national cluster "Fabbrica Intelligente" a national research cluster model to implement an industrial development strategy based on research and innovation to improve the competitive Italian industry. This national research and innovation cluster has developed a design for the development of factories in Italy based on Industrial Technology 4.0 such as Robotics, IAoT, and others that have been utilized by industry. The academic atmosphere supports the speedy recovery of the Italian manufacturing industry and re-growth due to the pandemic.

Therefore, USU seeks to develop its researchers' scientific and research strengths to initiate similar clusters at the national and international levels in collaboration with the government and SMEs in North Sumatra and Nationally. Currently, USU has become part of the Erasmus+ program as one of the campuses chosen to prepare competent graduates in the field of RI 4.0 through the establishment of the Master in Industry 4.0 Study Program. (RR)

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Humas - Humas

News
Erasmus
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara