MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Pharmacy Anniversary, Optimized Global Ultimate
USU Pharmacy Anniversary, Optimized Global Ultimate
Published At
28 November 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Pharmacy Anniversary, Optimized Global Ultimate
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 28 November 2023

The hope is that this increasing age will bring the USU Faculty of Pharmacy to a greater peak of success, and play a role in training competent and professional pharmaceutical experts," hope Prof. Muryanto.

USU PR - Faculty of Pharmacy, University of North Sumatra (USU) held its 17th Anniversary celebration, along with the 54th Anniversary of the USU Department of Pharmacy. With the theme "Pharmacy Collaboration Towards Global Ultimate". The event took place in the 2nd Floor Hall of the USU Faculty of Pharmacy, on Friday (03/11/2023).

In his remarks, USU Rector Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si sincerely appreciated all elements of leadership and the entire community under the USU Faculty of Pharmacy which this year celebrates its 17th Anniversary, while the Department of Pharmacy itself is 54 years old.

"The hope is that this increasing age will bring the Faculty of Pharmacy USU to the peak of great success, and play a role in training competent and professional pharmaceutical experts," hope Prof. Muryanto.

Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si underlined the vital role that the pharmaceutical industry plays in this critical era, as a pillar of global health welfare and sustainability. Along with the spirit of innovation, the development of medicines that not only save lives, but also improve the quality of life.

"The pharmaceutical industry is one of the most important sectors in the Government's efforts to meet global health needs," explained Prof. Muryanto.

Furthermore, describing the concept of Global Ultimate as a big vision that is desired together, which talks about equal access to health around the world, as well as stabilizing the global health system and renewing aspects of sustainability. Global Ultimate is an effort to maintain the relevance of the pharmacy profession and to make a more meaningful contribution to efforts to organize health care for the entire community.

"We need pharmacy professionals to constantly update their knowledge and skills to keep up with technological developments and trends in the pharmaceutical industry," said Prof. Muryanto.

Dean of the Faculty of Pharmacy Khairunnisa, S.Si., M.Pharm., Ph.D., Apt. hopes that the Faculty of Pharmacy can make more excellent achievements in the fields of academics, research and service. This is one of the efforts to support USU in achieving very important targets, namely World Class University (WCU) and Key Performance Indicators (IKU).

"We also hope that the Faculty of Pharmacy can make a better contribution to the achievement of IKU and WCU," hopes Khairunnisa.

Dr. Aminah Dalimunthe S.Si., M.Si., Apt as the Chairperson of the Committee, explained the series of events that started several months ago. Starting with the Top Scientist event, then there were seminars by alumni, then continued with competitions for S2 and S3 students, and there will still be various series of activities to enliven the anniversary of the Faculty of Pharmacy.

"Furthermore, there will be a national seminar which will be held in November, and there will also be a Fun Walk event," explained Dr. Aminah.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Muhammad Andriansyah - Humas

News
Dies Natalis
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara