MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Jokowi Encourages Rectors Throughout Indonesia To Maximize Student Potential In The MBKM Program
Jokowi Encourages Rectors Throughout Indonesia to Maximize Student Potential in the MBKM Program
Published At
03 August 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Jokowi Encourages Rectors Throughout Indonesia to Maximize Student Potential in the MBKM Program
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 03 August 2021

USU PUBLIC RELATION-MEDAN: The Independent Learning-Independent Campus (MBKM) becomes government strategies to maximize student potential in university. Industrial needs that increasingly diverse are thought to be the reasons for the government to optimize the program within state universities.

 

The President of the Republic of Indonesia, Joko Widodo, emphasized rectors throughout Indonesia to encourage the implementation of MBKM program. This was conveyed during his speech in the Indonesian Rector’s Forum Conference on Tuesday (7/27/2021) which was held online.

“MBKM is a crucial program to maximize student potential. Their potential are different and don’t let the potential is unusable in the future. MBKM is a forum so that students are able to channel their potentials,” Jokowi mentioned.

Furthermore, Jokowi explained that the steps were taken as a response to the current massive disruption which resulting major and profound changes.

“Disruption creates fundamental changes, initiated with the Industrial Revolution 4.0, followed by the Covid-19 pandemic that increases disruption even more on all fronts. Trading has shifted into e-commerce, banking world has been disrupted by fintech and various types of e-payments, medical and pharmaceutical worlds by healthtech, legal professional by rechttech and education has been massively disrupted by edutech,” he continued.

 

According to Jokowi, pandemic we encounter at the moment is a test for the nation resilience in all aspects, including the resilience in the world of education. Therefore, to the participants of the 2021 Indonesian Rector’s Forum Conference today, I entrust the hope that the world of education develop innovations that have emerged during the pandemic and continue them after the pandemic is over.

“Higher education institutions must strengthen their position as edutech institutions and the very foundation is learning to utilize digital technology.”

On the same occasion, Chair of the Indonesian Rector Forum (FRI), Prof. Dr. Arif Satria, SP, M.Si., through his remarks emphasized the synergy between government and campus is very crucial to maximize the success of MBKM program. 

“We can say there are at least five points in order MBKM to work. First, MBKM should be followed with campus autonomy expansion, then a comprehensive regulation, cultural and character building for students, strengthen of mental revolution movement, and the government play more roles in bridging the campus and industrial world,” Prof. Arif Satria said. 

 

Jokowi further advised that campus can define its curriculum with students’ potential development oriented. He reminded that campus is able to produce students who are ready to compete globally

“This disruption has eliminated many types of jobs, however, it is also creates many types of jobs. Campus must be able to see this so that it can prepare students to have the ability to compete in the future. The curriculum is made to maximize the potential of the students, not because the lecturer’s desire,” Jokowi asserted

The conference was coupled with the XXVII Campus Convention and the XXIII Annual Meeting. Aside of that, the elected Chair of FRI was introduced, namely UGM Rector, Prof. Ir. Panut Mulyono, MEng, DEng. Present at the online meeting were Ministers of the Advanced Indonesia Cabinet, Heads of State High Institutions and Rector throughout Indonesia. (RR/©ULC)

 

 

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Rizki Hakim Lubis - PR

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara