MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU-IPPAT MoU Focuses On Improving The Quality Of Master's In Notaries
USU-IPPAT MoU Focuses on Improving the Quality of Master's in Notaries
Published At
01 September 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU-IPPAT MoU Focuses on Improving the Quality of Master's in Notaries
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 01 September 2022

The Rector of the Unversitas Sumatera Utara, Dr. Muryanto Amin S.Sos., M.Si welcomed the collaboration with the Association of Land Deed Making Officials (IPPAT). This activity is expected to be the beginning for both parties to synergize.

USU PR - The signing of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Association of Land Deed Making Officials (IPPAT) and the Unversitas Sumatera Utara (USU) took place in the Academic Senate Meeting Room, USU Central Administration Bureau Building, 3rd floor, Friday (8/26/2022). Rector of the Unversitas Sumatera Utara, Dr. Muryanto Amin S.Sos, M.Si, welcomed the collaboration with the Association of Land Deed Making Officials (IPPAT), which is expected to be the beginning for both parties to synergize.

"Hopefully this cooperation will make us stronger in solving problems based on our respective functions." hope Muryanto Amin. On that occasion, the Dean of the USU Faculty of Law, Dr. Mahmul Siregar SH, M.Hum highlighted the importance of improving the quality of USU's Notary Masters graduates in digitizing land deeds in the current era of disruption.

“In this era of disruption, there is digitalization, including in the making of land deeds. So this collaboration can contribute to improving the quality of the Master of Notary Science at the Unversitas Sumatera Utara," said Mahmul Siregar. According to the Rector, this collaboration greatly supports the Independent Learning - Independent Campus (MBKM) learning method which embraces students to take part in off-campus learning in the form of internships and independent studies. The position of the Association of Land Deed Making Officials (IPPAT) as an association itself is expected to be USU's partner in providing input on the right program to be executed by the campus, so that it is in line with the needs of the industrial world.

"The campus is actively working on the MBKM program, one of the learning methods is that students are given the freedom to choose one or several activities to increase their potential. These activities can take the form of internships, independent studies and project lists, which are usually partnered with communities or associations. Deed officials with campus graduates need to be discussed for officials to provide input, what should be done by the campus so that it is in line with industry needs," said Muryanto Amin.

Not only stopping at the signing of the MoU, Dr Hapendi Harahap, SH, MH, as the General Chair of IPPAT designed a series of activities that will be realized in this collaboration. Among them is the implementation of research by USU with IPPAT related to the establishment and establishment of legislation on Smart Deeds.

"Regarding the Smart Deed, some of which are still looking for the form and pattern of signing, appearing before and others related to this Smart Deed. We offer USU to conduct research related to the establishment and formation of legislation regarding this Smart Deed. This is a major work that the government is pushing to carry out in 2023. We also offer related land registration issues. IPPAT has also carried out cooperation and discussions with the KPK so that Indonesia's competitiveness in the world can increase," Hapendi said.

Responding to cooperation in the form of research, the Rector welcomed the idea with a campus background that requires the role of industry and professionals in providing advice and teaching related fields of study. Especially in the Notary Masters study, it requires the development of knowledge about land, civil and state administration so that the dissemination of the requirements for making land deeds is also conveyed to lecturers and students.

"Regarding research, research is carried out to provide input to the public, and issue academic products. Campuses need criticism and suggestions from industry and professionals. Practitioners on the surface for the main campus teach related studies, for example regarding land, civil and state administration. It is important, so that the dissemination of the requirements for making land deeds is also conveyed to lecturers and students, "explained Muryanto Amin.

The Rector also hoped that the Association of Land Deed Making Officials (IPPAT) would still exist and contribute to the making of land deeds, because land is the source of life. (Noniya/RJ - ©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara