MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Lecturers Provide Public Speaking Training For Karang Taruna Members
USU Lecturers Provide Public Speaking Training for Karang Taruna Members
Published At
16 August 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Lecturers Provide Public Speaking Training for Karang Taruna Members
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 16 August 2021

USU PUBLIC RELATION-KARANG REJO, LANGKAT: As one of obligations according to Tri Dharma of Higher Education, lecturers of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) carried out public speaking training. Prof. Dr. Humaizi, MA and Prof. Dr. R. Hamdani Harahap from the Faculty of Social and Political Science (FISIP) USU, and Muhammad Yusuf, MA, from the Faculty of Culture Science (FIB) USU accompanied by students conducted the activity on Saturday (8/7/2021) at the Karang Rejo Village Office Hall, Stabat, Langkat Regency, North Sumatra.

Prof. Dr. Humaizi, MA, who is the Chair of the Serving Professor Team, stated that in the current era of the industrial revolution and digitalization, public speaking skills are essential. Public speaking skills can be applied in various moments which of surely require practice and experience so that the delivery process is smooth, not nervous or clumsy and the message can be conveyed to the listening audience.

In his presentation, Prof. Humaizi who is also a professor in the mass communication field at FISIP USU explained that the public speaking skill will definitely run smoothly if it has been practice every so often. Courage also plays a role. He added about the importance of understanding the audience and using word that are easy to understand to avoid misunderstanding of meaning. He also motivated the participants to continue to develop themselves, learn and have good intentions.

The second speaker, Patrial Olivert Zega, S.Pd, who is also an USU English master student and North Sumatra Language Ambassador of 2018, explained the importance of understanding context and dynamics in public speaking. He also provides examples in a relaxed, young style.

“Body language, stage mastery, and eye contact are the critical points for us to learn and master,” Patrial said.

Nurhaliza, who is USU’s 2nd Main Outstanding Student of 2021, explained that public speaking activities on social media are like what Youtubers and Tik-Tokers do. In addition, she also explained the conditions around her as well as her own experience in improving public speaking skill.

“We can master this public speaking or public speaking activities by practicing. Don’t give up if you can’t do it right away, take your time and grow the confidence in yourself that there is no ability that cannot be mastered. Therefore, we must all keep trying and learning,” Nurhaliza said.

Despite the implementation of strict health protocols, this activity was enthusiastically attended by dozens of Karang Rejo Village Youth Organization members, most of whom were teenagers. The activity ended with appreciation and gratitude conveyed by the Head of Karang Rejo Village. He said this kind of activities are very beneficial for the community.

“Hopefully there will be similar activities like this. Not only adds insights but also motivates us, especially for the young people of Karang Rejo Village,” he said.

“Thank you for USU’s concern to our youth members. Hopefully with this activity, our members will dare to speak in public and becomes a good example for their colleagues and other teenagers,” Heri concluded. (©ULC)

Author: Prof Dr Humaizi, MA, - Universitas Sumatera Utara

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Prof Dr Humaizi, MA, - Universitas Sumatera Utara

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara