MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Engineering
Master's Program In Civil Engineering
Master Program
Civil Engineering
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Master's Program in Civil Engineering program provides an opportunity for students to explore the field of civil engineering in greater depth. In this program, students will learn advanced concepts in structural engineering, construction engineering, project management, and structural modeling and simulation. They will also engage in in-depth research to address technical challenges in modern civil infrastructure, such as environmental sustainability and disaster resilience.

The program is designed to prepare graduates with the knowledge and skills necessary to become leaders in their field, both in the public and private sectors. With a focus on innovation, sustainability, and integration of the latest technology, graduates of the Master's Program in Civil Engineering at USU are expected to contribute to sustainable development and have a positive impact on society.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

mdts@usu.ac.id

Master's Program in Civil Engineering

Accredited Baik Sekali

0073/SK/LAM Teknik/AM/IV/2023

Vision of Master's Program in Civil Engineering

To become a Master's and Doctoral Study Program in Civil Engineering that pioneers international standard academic excellence and produces innovative research that is able to compete globally by answering local and national infrastructure challenges in 2024.

Mission of Master's Program in Civil Engineering

Education

Organizing a Master's and Doctoral Study Program in Civil Engineering that produces graduates who are dignified, innovative with integrity, resilient and professional, and able to compete at the international level in line with the development of science and technology.

Research

Carry out and support research activities in the field of innovative and dynamic civil engineering that can answer global challenges and be applied to society.

Graduates

Producing graduates of the Master's and Doctoral Study Program in Civil Engineering who are ready to use in accordance with industry needs and developments.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Structural Engineering

Geotechnical Structures

Public Infrastructure Management

Contact Us
Master's Program in Civil Engineering
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Almamater, Padang Bulan, Medan Baru, Medan City, North Sumatra, 20155

+628116069333 (Head of the Study Program); +628126055391 (Secretary of the Study Program); +6281396949384 (Admin of the Study Program)

mdts@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara