MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
WCU Team Holds Smart City Politics In Southeast Asia Webinar
WCU Team Holds Smart City Politics in Southeast Asia Webinar
Published At
06 January 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
WCU Team Holds Smart City Politics in Southeast Asia Webinar
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 06 January 2022

“We all have to be prepared, we have to keep learning fast, we have to be adaptive, skilled and willing to open up in response to these changes. Otherwise, we will be left behind, run over and forgotten," the Rector said.

USU PR - The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) World Class University (WCU) team held a Top Scientist Webinar entitled "Smart City Politics in Southeast Asia". Held through a Zoom meeting on Tuesday (12/28/2021), the topic was presented by a Research Center Professor at Kyoto University, Mr. Masaaki Okamoto.

In his remarks, USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin., S.Sos., M.Si. said that the Covid-19 pandemic has played a real role in accelerating digital transformation and smart city planning in various countries, including countries in the Southeast Asia Region.

"The massive rate of technological change is a major challenge for cities in Southeast Asia, including Indonesia," he said.

According to the Rector, as an area that has a strategic position in world trade routes, the need for a smart city that focuses on public services and main administrative services on cloud computing and Artificial Intelligence technology is very important to be implemented quickly.

"Digital transformation and smart cities are a reality today and a target for the future that has begun rapidly in the present," he said.

He added that the main key in overcoming various problems, both in the fields of health, education, as well as other fields in micro and macro development is the agility in building collaborations for the use of digital technology, data analytics, and new funding systems, which combine physical and financial infrastructure. digital investment.

“We all have to be prepared, we have to keep learning fast, we have to be adaptive, skilled and willing to open up in response to these changes. Otherwise we will be left behind, run over and forgotten," the Rector said.

In response for that, the Rector invited USU academics not to be satisfied with teaching activities on campus, but to be active in exploring virtual learning spaces, being active in efforts to overcome social problems in the community and being active in making new innovations.

Through this activity, Dr. Muryanto also hopes that there will be cooperation in the field of research (joint research) or the writing of joint scientific papers, as well as other expanded collaborations with the Research Center Professor Kyoto University Japan.

"This activity can develop into other positive activities and support efforts to increase USU's ranking in the World University Ranking," he said. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Humas - Humas

News
Education
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara