MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Coordinating Minister For PMK Planting Trees At USU
Coordinating Minister for PMK Planting Trees at USU
Published At
12 July 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Coordinating Minister for PMK Planting Trees at USU
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 12 July 2022

Muhadjir explained that the real action of planting trees at USU was a joint effort to raise awareness in the campus community about the importance of maintaining the environment and cleanliness for a healthy life. “Planting a tree requires more effort than cutting it down. Planting trees and caring for them can take 40 years, but cutting them only takes 10 minutes,” he said.

PR USU - Coordinating Minister for Human Development and Culture (Menko PMK) Muhadjir Effendy planted trees at the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), Wednesday (6/7/2022). Together with representatives of several universities in the city of Medan, the Minister is committed to supporting the Real Action of Planting Ten Million Trees as one of the real actions of the National Mental Revolution Movement launched by President Joko Widodo.

In his remarks, Muhadjir Effendy admitted that he felt comfortable at USU, a beautiful and cool campus. “When I come to USU, it's like a fish entering a pond. It feels like returning to their habitat," said Muhadjir Effendy.

Muhadjir explained that the real action of planting trees at USU was a joint effort to raise awareness to the campus community about the importance of maintaining the environment and cleanliness for a healthy life. “Planting a tree requires more effort than cutting it down. Planting trees and caring for them can take 40 years, but cutting them only takes 10 minutes,” he said.

Muhadjir also explained that currently, three global threats are being faced. The first is the greenhouse effect which impacts climate change, the second is Covid-19, and the third is the war between Russia and Ukraine. Planting trees at USU is one of the efforts to reduce the greenhouse effect so that the global climate returns to normal.

“We hope that the Mental Revolution movement in terms of planting trees and caring for the environment can grow from the campus environment. Because we believe that campus people are always clearer in looking at the future in terms of protecting the environment," he said.

The Mental Revolution Movement in tree planting is also expected to spread to the community and eventually create a collective awareness to love planting more than cutting down. "We hope this virus loves the environment to grow and spread from campus," he said.

In his remarks, Rector of USU, Dr Muryanto Amin, SSos, MSi welcomed the Mental Revolution Movement program initiated by the Coordinating Ministry for Human Development and Culture. "This program has actually been carried out in the last few years. Previously there was a campus clean-up movement and a waste and waste management program in the campus environment," he said.

USU and the Medan City Government, he added, have collaborated in terms of waste and waste management by involving students and lecturers. At the Indonesian Rector's Forum activity, USU has also initiated a waste and waste management proposal, which is fully funded by the Coordinating Minister for Human Development and Culture.

"Meanwhile, tree planting is symbolically carried out on USU's main campus, and in the future, it will be continued to plant 50,000 trees at Campus II Kwala Bekala involving 9,000 new USU students," he said.

For information, this planting activity is also part of the 29th National Family Day Celebration (Harganas) in Medan City and was held at the USU Campus. The Tree Planting Real Action was supported by the Ministry of Environment and Forestry and was attended by various elements of ministries, institutions, communities, academics, students and environmental groups.

The planting activities in the context of reforestation and economic independence include various types of productive plants and fruits, such as Avocado, Durian, and Breadfruit, with a target to be planted in stages as many as 300 thousand stems which BPDAS HL will provide.

The symbolic planting activities carried out together at USU will be continued by other universities in North Sumatra Province. The national target set by 2023 is 10 million trees, including trees for disaster risk reduction such as mangroves and perennials, for food and fruit self-sufficiency, and for reforestation to reduce the impact of climate change.

The planting activity was symbolically carried out by the Coordinating Minister for Human Development and Culture, Muhadjir Effendy and his ranks along with representatives of the Governor of North Sumatra, the Mayor of Medan and 11 Rectors of Universities in North Sumatra, namely: USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, SSos, MSi, Rector of Unimed, Dr. Syamsul Gultom, S.KM , M.Kes, Rector of UIN North Sumatra Prof. Dr. Syahrin Harahap, MA, UMSU Rector Prof. Dr Agussani, M.AP, UISU Chancellor, Dr. Yanuar Jamaluddin, M AP., Rector of Panca Budi University, Dr. H.M Isa Indrawan, S.E., M.M, Rector of Prima University, Prof. Dr. Chrismis Novalinda Ginting, M.Kes, Rector of Nomensen University Dr. Haposan, Siallagan, S H.M.H, Director of Medan State Polytechnic Abdul Rahman Dalimunthe, S E., Ak M.Sc., CA, UNU North Sumatra Rector Dr Ibnu Affan, S.H., M.Hum, and UNIKA Medan Rector Prof. Dr. Drs. Sihol Situngkir, M.BA.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: M. Andriansyah/Amri Simtupang - Humas

News
Main Article
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara