MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Postgraduate School
Doctoral Program In Regional Planning
Doctoral Program
Regional Planning
Universitas Sumatera Utara

As an advanced educational step from the Master Program in Regional and Rural Planning, the Doctoral Program in Regional Planning at the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is highly committed to developing students' abilities to understand and overcome problems in regional and rural development planning.

Established in 1993, the Regional Planning Doctoral Program is supported by lecturers who have extensive experience in their fields and are able to provide effective and quality learning. The program focuses on engineering principles by utilizing modern engineering methods, techniques, and instruments. Graduates of the Regional Planning Doctoral Program are expected to be able to carry out their professional responsibilities with the ability to identify and create innovations in the real sector that can accelerate regional development.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

sirohasyim@gmail.com

Doctoral Program in Regional Planning

Accredited B

No. 2514/SK/BAN-PT/Ak.Ppj/D/VI/2023

Vision of Doctoral Program in Regional Planning

Become a leading regional planning study program that achieves the highest national accreditation and builds a presence internationally.

Mission of Doctoral Program in Regional Planning

Developing Science

Implementing, developing, and improving education, research culture, and community service programs to enhance academic quality by developing superior knowledge, which is beneficial for changing the lives of the broader community for the better. Become a professional educational institution in the field of Regional Planning.

Modernization

Producing postgraduate program graduates who become agents of change as a force of modernization in the lives of the wider community, have scientific competence, relevance, and international competitiveness, and behave with ethical scholarship.

Education

Organize regional planning doctoral education as a forum for developing the character and professionalism of superior human resources in the national and international arena.

Autonomy

Organizing autonomy-based postgraduate education is a forum for developing the character and professionalism of human resources based on empowerment, which contains the spirit of democratization of education that recognizes plurality with an educational orientation that emphasizes finding alternative solutions to actual problems based on scientific, moral, and conscience studies.

Professional Graduates

Produce professional graduates in the regional planning field with an educational orientation that emphasizes aspects of the search for scientific novelty, innovation, and actual problem-solving based on scientific competence and relevance, as well as ethical scholarship.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Research

Policy

Regional Planning Professional

Contact Us
Doctoral Program in Regional Planning
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Prof. T. Maas Kampus USU Medan

(+62)-618218730

sirohasyim@gmail.com

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara