MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Archives Office Hosts PAPTI Activities
USU Archives Office Hosts PAPTI Activities
Published At
28 January 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Archives Office Hosts PAPTI Activities
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 28 January 2022

"Information about archival best practice is vital so that the history of oneself and the institution is not forgotten," said the Rector.

USU PR - Universitas Sumatra Utara (USU) Archives Office hosted the Archives Insight Gathering with the Indonesian Higher Education Archives Association (PAPTI). Held through a Zoom meeting on Tuesday (25/01/2022), this activity was attended by PAPTI members from various universities in Indonesia.

In his remarks, Rector of USU Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si. said that this activity is one of the efforts to disseminate good and proper archiving.

"Information about archival best practice is vital so that the history of oneself and the institution is not forgotten," he said.

The Rector said that disruption had occurred in all areas of life. First, disruption has changed the pattern of life. Second, it needs adjustment to become not a consumptive institution in disruption development. Regarding responding to the disruption that has occurred, one thing that needs to be done is digital archive management.

"We have to change the way we live, including our daily activities. Disruption produces a lot of positive things for us. This digital archive has now become very important and is no longer a new thing," he continued.

Dr. Muryanto added that the discussion of digital archives for offices and institutions had provided a solution, especially the issue of warehousing and the periodization of when an archive must be destroyed.

"Advances in information technology become a solution, then disruption accelerates the digital archive process," he said.

Thus, according to Dr. Muryanto, it is necessary to identify the problems that will be overcome in this insight meeting. In addition, it is also required to share resources, especially in PAPTI membership, to minimize financing.

Then, how to enjoy the needs of archives is also essential to be socialized to the public, especially for college residents, so that they can know the importance of archives.

"Hopefully, with PAPTI membership, it can strengthen the archival base in universities," said the Rector.

On the same occasion, the General Chairperson of PAPTI, Prof. Dr. Nandang Alamsah Deliarnoor, S.H., M.Hum. said that the gathering of insights was a sharing concept organized by PAPTI.

"The PAPTI Insight Gathering activity has become a routine agenda that has been carried out since early 2021," he said.

He also said that USU was one of the initiators of the formation of PAPTI along with 11 other universities and had made history at PAPTI by successfully hosting the 2018 International Conference in North Sumatra for the first time.

Prof. Nandang also appreciated USU's involvement in PAPTI activities. He hopes that other archive managers can take lessons from USU's best practices.

"Thank you and high appreciation for the dedication and cooperation of USU, as well as all universities involved in PAPTI membership," he said.

Head of the USU Archives Office Aisyah, S.E., M.Si also explained that the USU Archives Service supports the organizational structure at USU, which is in charge of managing, maintaining, and preserving documents of historical value for USU.

"The USU Archives Office service is intended to make it easier for users to find valuable information for the USU academic community and the general public," he explained.

Aisyah hopes that, through this activity, archive managers in Indonesia can share knowledge, experiences, and insights to create new insights that will be applied in their respective institutions.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Management
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara