MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
FH USU FGD Refines Notary Curriculum To Be More Adaptive
FH USU FGD Refines Notary Curriculum to be More Adaptive
Published At
20 December 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
FH USU FGD Refines Notary Curriculum to be More Adaptive
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 20 December 2021

"We need to formulate the achievements of good graduates, we have to think about what kind of graduate profile we want," said the Dean of the Faculty of Law.

USU PR - Faculty of Law (FH) Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held a Focus Group Discussion (FGD) entitled "Improvement of the MKn Study Program Curriculum to Give Birth to Professional MKn Study Program Graduates in accordance with the Development of Notary Service Needs/PPAT". This FGD was held through a zoom meeting on Thursday (12/16/2021).

Dean of the Faculty of Law Dr. Mahmul Siregar, S.H., M.Hum said, improving the curriculum is important so that the Notary Masters graduates can adapt to scientific developments and the professional world.

"We need to formulate the achievements of good graduates, we have to think about what kind of graduate profile we want," said the Dean of the Faculty of Law.

He said, because the Master of Notary Education is at the master's level, and also this study program originated as a special education program, so there is a demand for a good balance between the skill factor as a professional and the scientific factor as a master.

"The graduates have a balanced proportion between being a notary or being a legal practitioner, we need a good formulation," he said.

Dr. Mahmul said this FGD activity will also formulate how to apply learning patterns which are an important part of the curriculum. The learning pattern that will be formulated is not only face-to-face learning and theory, but a more varied learning pattern or collaborative class will be applied.

"Although notary is a practice in master's degree, but maybe it can be developed by project or case based learning," he continued.

According to Dr. Mahmul, improving this curriculum also needs to involve all stakeholders. "There needs to be input and suggestions from stakeholders so that the curriculum is in accordance with stakeholder expectations and follows developments that occur," he said.

He hopes the curriculum formulation FGD is not only because of the demands for reaccreditation documents, but also due to the desire to give the best to graduates.

On the same occasion, the Chair of the USU Faculty of Law Notary Masters Study Program, Prof. Dr. Hasim Purba, S.H., M.Hum said that this curriculum change was necessary because of a paradigm shift as well as the development of science and technology.

"We have to adapt learning methods based on science and technology, we can adapt to the concept of e-notary," said Dr. Hasim.

In addition, although the Master of Notary does not emphasize the Independent Learning Campus program, it is necessary to adapt to the idea. This is so that graduates of the Master of Notary Law can adapt to the needs of today's global society.

"How this notarial education is not only pure theory, not only weighting in the academy, but also about professional skills," he explained. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara