MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Rector Encourages Lifelong Learning In 4,101 Graduates
USU Rector Encourages Lifelong Learning in 4,101 Graduates
Published At
04 September 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
USU Rector Encourages Lifelong Learning in 4,101 Graduates
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Wednesday, 04 September 2024

“As USU alumni, you have the responsibility to continue the spirit and values that have been instilled during your time here,” said the USU Rector.”

USU PR - The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held a degree inauguration for 4,101 graduates in Period IV of the 2023/2024 Academic Year. It took place in a hybrid manner at the USU Auditorium and YouTube streaming on (21-24/08/2024).

 

The theme carried out in this graduation is “Lifelong Learning dan Adaptasi Perubahan Mengatasi Ketidakpastian Dunia Kerja,” which emphasizes the ability to adapt to global change and disruption.

 

In his speech, USU Rector, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., congratulated the students on their achievements and emphasized the importance of the lifelong learning spirit in facing future challenges.

 

“Today, all of you have proven that perseverance, hard work, and commitment are the keys to success. I congratulate you and your families for this achievement,” said Prof. Muryanto.

 

USU currently manages around 37,493 students and has graduated 260,677 alumni. Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si highlighted that USU graduates must continue to contribute to the advancement of civilization in Indonesia and internationally and be ready to face the uncertainty of the world of work with adaptability and responsiveness to changes that occur.

 

The USU Rector also emphasized the importance of continuing the learning process, even though an academic degree has been achieved. According to him, the current world of work requires graduates to continue learning and adapting.

 

“Education does not stop here. Future challenges will require you to continue learning and improving your abilities. This is where the importance of the lifelong learning concept that we instill during your education at USU,” he explained.

 

This graduation also recorded proud achievements from the best graduates. A total of five people from the Doctoral program won the Cum Laude title. One of the graduates from the Biology Study Program even managed to get a perfect Grade Point Average (GPA) of 4.00.

 

“This achievement shows that with hard work and dedication, you can reach the highest peak in academics,” added Prof. Muryanto.

 

In addition to praising academic achievements, the USU Rector also gave important advice about success and resilience in facing the future. He stated that success is not the result of talent alone but a combination of consistent effort and the ability to learn from failure.

 

“Don't be afraid to fail because it is from failure that you learn to get up and be stronger,” he said.

 

The USU Rector also reminded the graduates to maintain the good name of the alma mater and continue to make a positive contribution to society. He hopes that the graduates can become agents of change for the good of the wider community.

 

“As USU alumni, you have the responsibility to continue the spirit and values that have been instilled during your time here,” he said.

 

Not to forget, the USU Rector touched on the increasingly fierce competition in the world of work. He encouraged graduates to not only rely on diplomas, but also develop skills that are relevant to current industry needs.

 

“Never stop honing your skills. The world of work requires individuals who are creative, innovative, and ready to face change,” he said.

 

One of the graduates, Risania Oktaviani Agnesia Butar-Butar, from the Finance study program at the Faculty of Vocational Studies, also shared her experience during her education at USU. Risania said that during her almost three years at USU, she was active in various organizations that gave her the opportunity to meet many new friends and expand her network. She was happy with her USU experience because the people she met, including lecturers and staff, were very friendly and helpful.

 

“For almost 3 years studying at USU, I have undergone various organizations and activities. The message is very positive because by joining organizations, I can meet many new friends and expand my network,” said Risania.

 

Emotionally, the graduates were reminded not to forget the services of their parents, lecturers, and all those who have supported their academic journey. This graduation ceremony is not only a moment of pride for the graduates, but also for the entire USU family.

News
carousel
Headline
SDGs 4
SDGs
SDGs 5
SDGs 10
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara