MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Field Assessment Of Undergraduate Economic Development Study Program
Field Assessment of Undergraduate Economic Development Study Program
Published At
21 January 2025
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Field Assessment of Undergraduate Economic Development Study Program
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 21 January 2025

“This assessment process is one of the efforts made to gain recognition for the quality of educational services and the implementation of the tridharma as a whole,” said VR 1.

Public Relations USU - The Institute for Self-Accreditation of Business Management Economics and Accounting (Lamemba) conducted an offline field assessment for the S-1 Development Economics Study Program of the Faculty of Economics and Business (FEB), Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) by bringing in two assessor teams from the University of Surabaya, Prof. Suyanto, SE, M.Ec.Dev, Ph.D and Prof. Dr. Apridar, SE, M.Si from Syiah Kuala University. This activity occurred in the Prof. Dr. Suhadji Hadibroto FEB USU Hall on Monday, (20-22/01/2025).

 

This assessment activity aims to capture the study program's performance and become a benchmark for improving educational services.

 

“This assessment process is one of the efforts made to gain recognition for the quality of educational services and the implementation of the tridharma as a whole,” said VR 1.

 

In his remarks, Vice Rector 1, Prof.Dr. Edy Ikhsan SH, MA, expressed his hope that this activity could maintain the superior accreditation status previously achieved by this study program. The S1 Development Economics Study Program, one of the oldest programs in FEB USU, established in 1961, is expected to continue improving the quality of education and national economic development.

 

“We hope this activity will provide the best results for the accreditation of the Development Economics Study Program of FEB USU,” said VR 1.

 

The success of the S1 Economic Development Study Program in producing various academic works, such as research, community service, and international publications, has also been highlighted. With 47 IPRs, 95 publications, and 894 international citations, this achievement is expected to continue to improve to support USU's vision as a university that excels in the global arena.

 

In his remarks, the Dean of FEB USU, Dr. Fadli, SE, M.Si emphasized the importance of the accreditation process as a commitment to maintaining the quality of education. He said that accreditation is not just a symbol but a motivation and promise for education providers to continue to provide the best.

 

“This is a commitment of the entire USU academic community always to provide the best and improve the quality of educators,” Fadli said.

 

Prof. Dr. Apridar, SE, M.Si as one of the assessor team revealed that the accreditation assessment is based on national standards with reference to 27 assessment dimensions, of which at least 25 must meet international competitiveness to achieve a superior rating.

 

“It must be fulfilled if it is to be superior,” Apridar explained.

 

Before the field assessment, the self-evaluation document and the completeness of the study program had become the basis for the initial assessment.

 

This field assessment activity is part of USU's efforts to continue transforming according to the spirit of “Transformation Towards the Ultimate,” hoping to have the greatest impact on students, society, and the world of education in general.

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara