MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Regarding Tuition Fee Increases, USU's Vice Rector I Accepts Student Aspiration
Regarding Tuition Fee Increases, USU's Vice Rector I Accepts Student Aspiration
Published At
25 April 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Regarding Tuition Fee Increases, USU's Vice Rector I Accepts Student Aspiration
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 25 April 2022

"The increase in the UKT amount is based on calculations and studies, so it is not done immediately. This policy also adapts to current needs. This impacts USU's need to manage its various programs," said Edy.

USU PR: Vice-Rector I of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Dr. Edy Ikhsan, SH, MA, accepts student aspirations regarding the policy of increasing the Single Tuition Amount (UKT). Edy Ikhsan directly received the arrival of students in front of the USU Central Administration Bureau, on Thursday (21/04/2022).

USU's VR I sat down with the students to discuss their demands. As is known, USU has just issued a policy to increase the UKT amount. Edy conveyed the reason USU issued the policy. It is conveyed if the increase is adjusted by considering many things.

"The increase in the UKT amount is based on calculations and studies, so it is not done immediately. This policy also adapts to current needs. This impacts USU's need to manage its various programs," said Edy. He explained that USU had to adjust the UKT amount to current conditions. USU's need to organize various programs and services is related to the level of expensiveness and price increases in the market.

“USU has not increased UKT for 10 years. During that time, there has also been an increase in commodity prices, inflation and so on. If we don't adjust it, USU will find it difficult on its own because there are approximately 40,000 students we have to serve," he said. Edy Ikhsan emphasized that although USU's UKT increased, the amount was still relatively low compared to other state universities in Indonesia. He claims that USU's UKT is one of the cheapest in Indonesia.

"Even though we are increasing it, USU is still a university with a low UKT. We need to increase the size of this UKT to provide and improve academic services. The increase in the UKT amount was also carried out to support USU to compete globally in universities. Edy emphasized that USU is intensively increasing its ranking and accreditation," said Edy.

In practice, the Single Tuition Fee (BKT) for each student per semester is greater than the determined UKT amount. USU applies cross-subsidies between regular students and independent students. So that independent student fees cover the lack of BKT per student. “I gave an example of forestry students. After being calculated, the BKT of a forestry student per semester is 11 million. However, UKT is level 8, or the highest is only 6 million. I also gave an example at FCS majoring in Ethnomusicology, the BKT is 8 million, and the UKT is at the highest level is 5 million. So USU did a subsidy to cover it.” he explained.

He also mentioned that USU always provides academic services, one of which is transparency. USU's leadership and the entire academic community are committed to always being transparent in every policy taken and trying to invite students to participate in making these policies. “If there is a problem, case by case, I hope that the younger students here can assist and advocate. There is no problem that cannot be solved, but it takes time. Therefore, the role of younger students is important to help us also provide services, "said Edy.

Students who are members of the USU Love Student Alliance made speeches bringing several demands. Among these demands are demanding an extension of UKT payments for SNMPTN 2022 students, demanding a review of the decision to increase the UKT amount, simplifying the procedure for reducing IKT. In addition, they also conveyed demands for transparency and information on budget allocations, provided space for student involvement in campus policies, demanded a fair allocation of educational aid funds, and rejected campus intervention and intimidation of students' space for movement. (RR)

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara