MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
The USU Rector Invites Students To Fight Radicalism
The USU Rector Invites Students to Fight Radicalism
Published At
04 October 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
The USU Rector Invites Students to Fight Radicalism
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 04 October 2021

MEDAN-USU PUBLIC RELATIONS: The phenomenon of radicalism which has recently been increasing has become an issue that needs serious attention. The existence of radicalism is feared to break the unity of the nation and also increase unrest in the community. Comprehensive and sustainable handling is needed to be able to counteract the growing radicalism.

The Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., invited the participation of students in countering radicalism, especially in the campus environment. This was conveyed at the opening of the Focus Group Discussion entitled The Phenomenon of Radicalism in Indonesia. The activity was initiated by the Center for the Study of Religious Moderation and National Character and USU.

“Student’s participation is very important in countering radicalism. The position of students who are pursuing higher education is vulnerable as objects of exposure to radicalism. This is because students are also in the process of searching for their identity," said the USU Rector. He further explained that the influence of radicalism could occur due to several factors. Influence within oneself and also the environment plays a very important role in shaping the character and basic thinking of a student.

“There are internal and external factors that shape a person's mindset. Internal factors are certainly from within themselves, but there are factors that also have a big influence, namely external factors. The environment has a big influence on the mindset," he said.

Komjen Pol (Ret.) Suhardi Alius, Head of BNPT for the period of 2016-2020 said that the phenomenon of radicalism was not only faced by Indonesia. He said that the world community is also trying to counter the widespread understanding of radicalism in the lives of their respective countries.

“In world meetings or forums I always mention, we all join hands to counter radicalism. We also emphasize that radicalism is not affiliated with religion, race, and ethnicity, but rather an attitude not to accept diversity," he said.

Muryanto Amin said that if serious treatment is needed, the potential for radicalism in the community can be suppressed. He really appreciates the Center for the Study of Religious Moderation and National Character which will play a role in this.

“The existence of the Center for the Study of Religious Moderation and National Character is a good step to prevent the spread of radicalism. I hope that the existence of the study center can have a significant impact in preventing radicalism in Indonesia,” Muryanto said.

As is known, the Focus Group Discussion is scheduled to discuss the phenomenon of radicalism in Indonesia. Several competent resource persons were presented to provide an understanding of the phenomenon of radicalism in Indonesia, namely Prof. Dr. Siti Ruhaini Dzuhayatin, MA (Lecturer of UIN Sunan Kalijaga Yogyakarta), Khairul Ghazali (Leader of Al-Hidayah Islamic Boarding School). (RR/©ULC)

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Humas - PR

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara