MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Indonesian Literature Holds Content Creator Technical Guidance
USU Indonesian Literature Holds Content Creator Technical Guidance
Published At
19 March 2024
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Indonesian Literature Holds Content Creator Technical Guidance
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 19 March 2024

"Technological advancements make distant things closer and difficult things easier. The younger generation should not just sit and wait for job opportunities; let's be creative by answering the world's challenges, showing that even working from home can generate sustenance," she said.

 

USU PR—USU Faculty of Cultural Sciences Undergraduate Program in Indonesian Literature, held a Technical Guidance (Bimtek) on Language Technology (Content Creator) for students in collaboration with the North Sumatra Language Center (BBSU) and CV Nine Star at the T. A. Ridwan Hall, FIB USU on Tuesday (Mar. 19).

The speakers presented were Hasan Al Banna, a writer from BBSU, and Abdul Rasyid (Acid), a content creator from CV Nine Star Creative Production.

In addition to the material presentation by two speakers, the event was also accompanied by the signing of a collaboration agreement with BBSU and CV Nine Star, which was directly signed by the Dean of the Faculty of Cultural Sciences, USU, Prof. Dr. T. Thyrhaya Zein, M.A.

In his closing remarks, the Dean of the USU Faculty of Cultural Sciences, Prof. Dr. Thyrhaya Zein, M.A., stated that this Content Creator Workshop is expected to enhance students' creativity. "It is also hoped that the students who have completed the workshop can assist the Indonesian Literature Program in creating digital learning content," he said.

Prof. Thyrhaya Zein explained that digital learning content is one of the important assessment elements in the international accreditation conducted by the FIBAA institution. The Indonesian Literature Program is projected to achieve international certification, so this Content Creator Workshop is expected to improve teaching quality.

Deputy Dean III of the Faculty of Cultural Sciences, USU, Mhd. Pujiono, S.S., M.Hum., Ph.D., who opened the event, emphasized that content creators have become one of the choices for young people to explore their creativity and increase their income. "Consistently running content creation will certainly impact all aspects for oneself and others. Thank you to the Indonesian Literature Program for organizing this Content Creator Workshop, as it is a very interesting issue to discuss," he said.

Chairperson of the Indonesian Literature Program, FIB USU, Dr. Dwi Widayati, M.Hum., explained in her speech that the rapid advancement of technology requires academics to open their eyes and not just be creative in one place. Instead, they must open their eyes to see a world that is getting closer to us.

"Technological advancements make distant things closer and difficult things easier. The younger generation should not just sit and wait for job opportunities; let's be creative by answering the world's challenges, showing that even working from home can generate sustenance," she said.

Dr. Dwi Widayati emphasized that academic creativity should not be limitless. Guidelines of courtesy must still be observed as a form of responsibility for the knowledge acquired and for society in general.

One of the speakers, Hasan Al Banna, mentioned in his presentation that language is a power that should not be underestimated. Human creativity can be expressed through language, and the intended meaning can be understood. "The creative use of language will also change the meaning perspective for those who read it. Therefore, as students of the Indonesian Literature Program, we must be able to creatively use language to produce works or content that are inspiring, entertaining, and meaningful," said the author of the book "Kopi dan Kepo," which was nominated as one of the top five poetry books by Tempo.

The Secretary of the Indonesian Literature Program, FIB USU, Dra, also attended the event. Nurhayati Harahap, M.Hum., and several lecturers from the Indonesian Literature Program, including Dr. Dra. Dardanila, M.Hum., Bambang Riyanto, S.S., M.Si., Latifah Yusri Nasution, S.S., M.Si., and Rachmad Fadillah Maha, S.S., M.Si., who also acted as the moderator. 

News
SDGs 4
SDGs 8
SDGs 9
Education
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara