MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
About
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Universitas Sumatera Utara

Accredited with Excellence

BAN-PT 105/SK/BAN-PT/Ak.Ppj/PT/II/2023

Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is one of the best public universities in Indonesia located in Medan, North Sumatra. Originally established in 1952 under the name Yayasan Universitet Sumatera Utara, USU has developed into a top university offering a variety of quality study programs. President Soekarno inaugurated USU as the 7th state university in Indonesia in 1957. In 2003, USU upgraded its status to a Legal Entity State University (PTN-BH) and became the 5th PTN-BH university in Indonesia. Its various advantages, such as modern facilities and expert teaching staff, make it one of the best universities in Indonesia.

42.687

Students

218

Professors

628

Assistant Professors

260

Instructors

17

Faculty/School

14

Diploma Program

7

Applied Undergraduate Program

51

Undergraduate Program

26

Specialist Program

4

Sub Spesialict Program

7

Professional Program

43

Master's Program

24

Doctoral Program

357

Associate Professors

109

Lecturers

1201-1400

QS World University Ranking

329

QS Asia University Ranking

3

QS Stars

1491

THE World University Ranking

1491

Webometrics World University Ranking

1951
One of the proof sheets of community donations to establish FK-USU
Vice Rector of Universitas Sumatera Utara

Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si.

Rector of Universitas Sumatera Utara

Board of Trustees
Board of Professors
Academic Senate
University Secretary
Leaders and Organizational Structure
USU Official Music

USU’s Vision

To become a university that has academic excellence as a barometer of scientific progress that is able to compete in the global world.

MISSION

To conduct autonomy-based higher education that serves as a platform for the character and professionalism development of human resources, which is based on empowerment containing the spirit of democratization of education that acknowledges pluralism with an educational orientation that emphasizes the aspect of searching for alternative solutions to actual problems based on scientific, moral, and conscience studies;

To produce graduates who become agents of change as a force of modernization in the life of society at large, who have strong academic competence, relevance, and competitiveness, as well as who behave with ethical intellectualism; and

To implement, develop, and improve education, research culture, and community service activities in order to improve academic quality by developing superior science, which benefits the wider society in improving their way of life.

OBJECTIVES

To produce quality graduates who are capable of developing science, technology, humanities, and arts based on religious morals, as well as be able to compete at national and international levels;

To produce innovative research that promotes the development of science, technology, humanities, and arts on a national and international scope;

To produce community service based on reasoning and research works that are innovatively beneficial in advancing the general welfare and intellectual life of the nation and community empowerment so that the society is able to solve problems independently and sustainably;

To improve the quality of learning management continuously to achieve excellence in national and international competition and cooperation;

To realize adaptive, creative, and proactive independence towards the demands of society and the challenges of development, both nationally and internationally;

To become a moral and intellectual force in building Indonesian civil society; and

To develop students’ potential to become faithful and devoted to God Almighty, possess noble morals, healthy, knowledgeable, capable, creative, independent, skillful, competent, and cultured for the nation’s benefit.

More about Duties and Functions

Official written information and guidelines can be accessed on the following page.

More about Duties and Functions
In an effort to realize the vision, mission and goals, the Universitas Sumatera Utara implements the main values of BINTANG as a guide for all academicians.

VALUES OF

BINTANG

Devoted to Almighty God

In the frame of diversity, USU individuals are obedient to the Almighty God, always praying to Him for all efforts to achieve success, accompanied by a spirit of togetherness and tolerance among people of different religions.

Innovative and Has Integrity

USU individuals realize that to become a prestigious and reputable university as well as gain international recognition, innovation in various fields while still adhering to the principles of academic ethics and professionalism is necessary.

Resilient and Wise

USU individuals never give up and do not easily despair in pursuing their goals while maintaining a wise attitude.

USU’s Identity

Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) has an identity including status, position, anniversary, emblem, flag, hymn, march, and academic dress which are regulated in Government Regulation No. 16 of 2014 concerning USU Statutes.

Visit the USU Identity Page

Based on in-depth input and discussion from all stakeholders, TALENTA's competitive advantage was developed, which emphasizes the potential of the North Sumatra region and the potential of USU, which is interpreted as follows:

Tropical Science and Medicine
As an area situated in a tropical region with extraordinary biodiversity, North Sumatra faces the presence of both infectious and non-infectious tropical diseases. These diseases are endemic, found only in tropical areas with unique distributions. Likewise, prevention and treatments for these diseases are developed locally. As the oldest faculty, the Faculty of Medicine, with its expertise in tropical medicine, should position tropical science and medicine as one of its signature areas. This field also involves other scientific disciplines such as pharmacy, natural sciences, and even cultural and social-political studies.
AgroIndustry
North Sumatra has long been recognized as an agricultural region with fertile land. The region's varied geography and topography yield diverse agricultural products. Highland areas produce many commodities, including coffee, which is well-known domestically and internationally. Lowland areas produce products such as palm oil, coconut, rubber, cacao, and tobacco, some of which are specifically found in North Sumatra. With advanced processing and distribution systems, these agricultural products should ideally be processed locally before export to increase their added value. In addition to general agricultural approaches, the development of agroindustry also requires economic, cultural, engineering, ICT, and scientific disciplines.
Local Wisdom
With its rich ethnic diversity, North Sumatra feels fortunate to serve as an example of good interaction and tolerance. Every ethnic group brings local wisdom that can be utilized to maintain and preserve national unity. Local wisdom can be incorporated into modern democratic life, ensuring cultural identity is not lost. The role of social sciences, politics, law, psychology, and even economics can make local wisdom even more appealing.
Energy (Sustainable)
Energy issues and availability are current global challenges, and these issues will persist in the future. Changes in fossil fuel consumption must be anticipated due to the upcoming fossil fuel crisis as it is a nonrenewable resource. North Sumatra, with its diverse geography and abundant natural resources, is an excellent location for developing alternative energy sources. The development and utilization of renewable energy sources on a sustainable basis are results of the sciences, agriculture, natural sciences, socio-political studies, culture, law, and economics.
Natural Resources (Biodiversity, Forest, Marine, Mine, Tourism)
The abundant natural resources encompass biological diversity in flora, fauna, oceans, minerals, and landscapes, each with the uniqueness of North Sumatra's lands. For instance, medicinal plants and raw materials can be sourced directly from forests and oceans. Mineral resources on the earth and sea of North Sumatra are abundant, as are mining materials and their derivatives, which provide economic benefits to the people. The potential for advanced material derived from these natural resources should be explored through interdisciplinary approaches, including engineering, cultural studies, law, politics, and socio-economic studies, in order to develop and harness the maximum potential of these resources.
Technology (Appropriate)
Appropriate technology is practical technology that can be used directly by the community. This technology can be in the form of programs, tools, and services. The development of this technology requires good cooperation between designers and users. Therefore, it is important to involve social cultural approaches in its application. Scientific fields such as engineering, ICT, mathematics and natural sciences, law, and economics are branches of science that play a very important role in the development of this technology
Arts (Ethnic)
North Sumatra with its ethnic diversity contributes to the diversity of arts and culture. Many things that are ethnic arts can colour life. Existing art, including ethnic art, has not been studied optimally. The study of art needs to involve disciplines, including anthropology, sociology, cultural sciences, engineering, ICT, and Mathematics and Natural Sciences.

Integrated Service Unit

The Legal Documentation and Information Network of Universitas Sumatera Utara is an information system established by the Faculty of Law of Universitas Sumatera Utara to collect, store, and provide access to information and legal documents related to academic and research activities at the faculty.

Visit Integrated Service Unit

The Information Documentation and Management Officer (PPID) is the official responsible for storing, documenting, providing, and/or serving information at a public body.

Visit USU's Information Documentation and Management Officer

Legal Documentation and Information Network

The Legal Documentation and Information Network of Universitas Sumatera Utara is an information system established by the Faculty of Law of Universitas Sumatera Utara to collect, store, and provide access to information and legal documents related to academic and research activities at the faculty.

Visit USU Legal Information and Documentation Network
VISIT US

Padang Bulan Campus

Dr. T. Mansur Street No. 9, Padang Bulan, Medan Baru District, Medan City, North Sumatra 20222

Kwala Bekala Campus

Durin Tunggal, Pancur Batu District, Deli Serdang Regency, North Sumatra 20353

North Nias Campus

Omasio Street, Lawira Satua, Lotu District, North Nias Regency, 22856

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara