MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Go International, Five USU Students Pass IISMA 2021
Go International, Five USU Students Pass IISMA 2021
Published At
02 August 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Go International, Five USU Students Pass IISMA 2021
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 02 August 2021

The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) continues to make proud achievements at the international level. Most recently, five USU students made sure to go international, after successfully qualifying for the 2021 Indonesian International Student Mobility Award (IISMA) from the Indonesian Ministry of Education and Culture.

USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., said, the IISMA program itself is a student exchange scholarship program for undergraduates from all majors."Through this program, students who pass the selection will get hands-on learning experience at well-known universities abroad," he said, Monday (6/28).

He explained that students who pass will not only study in class, but will also learn local culture for one semester in August-December 2021. SKS or course credits taken during this program will be transferred and recognized by UEU.

"This is of course a matter of pride and a positive achievement that our other students must improve," he said.

The five students who successfully pass are Threesna Sharfina from the Faculty of Public Health who will study at the University of Glasgow, Scotland, UK.Next is Holongi TL Sitorus from the Faculty of Law who studied at the University of Pecs, Hungary.

Alyssa Nadia from the Faculty of Economics and Business who will study at the Technological University, Singapore, Ruth CP Sianipar from the Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology who is studying at the University of Lumerick and Arafah Nur Ihza also from the Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology from the University of Leicester, English.

Dr. Mury advised the five students who are going to study abroad to take advantage of the opportunities they had."Not all students get this golden opportunity, so make the most of it," he said.

The Rector also hoped that the five students would be able to maintain the good name of USU by always giving the best in their place of study."After returning later from abroad, they must also be able to transfer knowledge so that today's achievements can be transmitted to other students," he said.

It is known that the government has prepared a quota for 1,000 of Indonesia's best students to study abroad.The scholarship scheme for students will be abroad for one or two semesters.The IISMA program assistance scheme includes all the components that students need.

Launching the official website of the Ministry of Education and Culture, the Director General of Higher Education of the Ministry of Education and Culture Nizam also said that this program is expected to be a valuable asset for students to tread the career path and prepare themselves to become future leaders of thenation with a global perspective.

"We hope that universities that join this program from our global partners can partner with domestic universities, we hope that universities that send students are directly involved with the international world," the Director General of Higher Education said.

Director of Learning and Student Affairs Kemdikbudristek, Aris Djunaidi, explained that currently there are 73 world universities from 31 countries collaborating as partners for the IISMA scholarship program. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Humas - Humas

News
Achievement
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara