MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Medical Education And Profession Holds Assessment
USU Medical Education and Profession Holds Assessment
Published At
09 June 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Medical Education and Profession Holds Assessment
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 09 June 2022

"Offline Field Assessment Activities, which started today and were carried out for two days, as part of the accreditation activities for the US Medical Faculty and Medical Education Study Programs and Profession," said Muryanto Amin.

PR USU - The Faculty of Medicine (FK) Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held an Offline Field Assessment for the Education and Professional Doctoral Study Program. The event took place in the USU Medical Faculty Hall on Monday, (06/06/2022).

On that occasion, USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Sc. in his speech said that this activity was part of the accreditation activities for the Education and Professional Doctors Study Program and lasted for 2 days.

"Offline Field Assessment Activities, which started today and were carried out for two days, as part of the accreditation activities for the US Medical Faculty and Medical Education Study Programs and Profession," said Muryanto Amin.

The Rector also stated that a good accreditation assessment of USU's Education and Medical Profession Study Program is expected to increase further the enthusiasm of the lecturers and students in the study program to produce various achievements in both academic and non-academic fields. And can contribute by dedicating their capabilities in the human aspect.

"No less important, to contribute and dedicate the capabilities and expertise possessed to the humanitarian aspect, particularly helping improve public health as a whole," he said.

He said that this activity could provide good results for the accreditation of USU's Education and Medical Profession Study Program to increase self-confidence and quality of service to students and collaborating partners both in academic and non-academic spheres.

"We hope that this activity will give good results for the accreditation of USU's Medical and Professional Education Study Programs so that it can further increase self-confidence and the quality of academic and non-academic services to all students and collaborating partners," said the Rector.

The Rector hopes that after this assessment, the management of the Medical Education and Profession study program can follow the assessment standards. And now, it is making continuous improvements to provide educational services that are neatly arranged.

"The management of the study program is following assessment standards and continues to be carried out. We are currently making continuous improvements for education services that are neatly recorded," he said.

For information, the assessment carried out today is a continuation of the online visitation that has been carried out previously.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara