MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
University Activity
Quizizz Platform Training From USU Lecturers For Teachers
Quizizz Platform Training from USU Lecturers for Teachers
Published At
31 August 2022
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
Quizizz Platform Training from USU Lecturers for Teachers
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Wednesday, 31 August 2022

Educators are required to be creative in providing materials and assessing students' abilities, especially in an era that prioritizes the use of technology, where teachers' teaching skills are expected to be able to balance this progress.

Seeing the urgency for the teaching and learning process and teacher assessment to be in accordance with technological developments, the Community Service Team from the Universitas Sumatera Utara led by Prof. Dr. Humaizi, M.A., together with Prof. Dr. R. Hamdani Harahap, Muhammad Yusuf, M.A., and several students from the Faculty of Social and Political Sciences and the Faculty of Cultural Sciences held training for teachers with the theme "Improving Information Technology Literacy in Making Learning Assessments for Teachers at Imelda Tourism Vocational School Medan". The community service was conducted on August 13, 2022 at the Imelda Tourism Vocational School Laboratory, Medan.

 

Prof. Humaizi, in his presentation, stated that currently, the role of technology cannot be avoided. So as educators, we must adapt quickly, including providing assessments to evaluate student learning outcomes. Furthermore, this professor in the field of Communication Sciences at USU also added that he came with the community service team to share knowledge and discuss together about the use of online platforms that can help teachers in providing assessments. The use of Google Classroom, G-Form, and Whatsapp Group has indeed followed technological advances, but students' enthusiasm in participating in learning has also decreased because the platform used seems monotonous. This is also the background for introducing other platforms, such as Quizizz.

 

In the training, teachers were first introduced to how to create an account on the platform and also introduced the features available on the Quizizz platform. There was a lot of confusion during the training. Still, the assistance during the activity by USU students, namely Fit Septri Yenni, Laura Syahrani Pane, Daniel Tiarif Manalu, Patrial Olivert Zega, Nidiya Mawarni, Chintia Wardhani, and M Faqih Bashar, who were also part of the community service team, reduced the participants' confusion in using this platform. One of the teachers admitted that he did not know about the Quizizz application because he only used common platforms such as Google Classroom or G-Form.

 

"This training is very helpful because we know about this application and can also learn how to use it," continued the teacher.

 

The activity went very well, and I received a warm welcome from the teachers at SMK Pariwisata Imelda. This was conveyed by Syahputra, M.Pd., as a representative of the principal. In addition to expressing his gratitude to the implementing team, he also hoped that the activity could improve the ability of teachers to make assessments to students, based on information technology with correct literacy. (RJ)

University Activity
Community Service Activity
Find More Activity
University Activity
USU Lecturer Concern on the Extinction of Orangutan Tapanuli
University Activity
USU professor turns shrimp shell waste into face serum
University Activity
USU Research Collaboration Lowers Stunting Rate in Sergai

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara