MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Rector's Annual Working Visit Focuses On Improving Tridharma Performance
USU Rector's Annual Working Visit Focuses on Improving Tridharma Performance
Published At
15 January 2025
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Rector's Annual Working Visit Focuses on Improving Tridharma Performance
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 15 January 2025

“We must move together and support each other. Only with strong synergy can we achieve USU's big vision and positively impact the wider community,” said Prof. Muryanto.

Public Relations USU—The Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., began an annual working visit to each faculty member on Wednesday (15/01/2025), as part of a commitment to ensure the optimal implementation of the Tridarma of Higher Education.

 

During his visit, Prof. Muryanto Amin emphasized the importance of open dialogue between university leaders and the academic community in each faculty. According to him, this visit is an effort to listen directly to aspirations, challenges, and innovations that can be developed so that USU can become a research-based university that excels globally.

 

“This visit is clear evidence that we want to understand the needs and potential of each faculty directly. We must work together to realize relevant and impactful innovations,” said Prof. Muryanto.  

 

Various strategic issues were discussed during the visit, starting with the general policy on the flow of higher education policy in the Red and White Cabinet. The Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology launched four priority programs: Access to Higher Education, Growing and Strengthening the Scientific Culture of Research and Development, Development of Science and Technology Talents, and Solving National Social and Economic Problems.

To support the program's realization, Prof. Mury conveyed his analysis of the ministry's policies by discussing the synchronization of USU's priority programs with the Ministry of Research and Technology priorities based on the USU IKP.

Regarding the point of access to quality higher education, the priorities of the Ministry of Higher Education and Science and Technology and USU look the same. USU emphasizes the inclusive expansion of educational services for underprivileged students and students in the 3T region. This program is in line with IKP 2 USU. Furthermore, USU develops innovation and integration of student learning following the needs of DUDI. USU also develops the competence and qualifications of human resources, and continues to improve infrastructure to support academic activities.

Regarding the priority program for Science and Technology Talent Development, the USU Rector mentioned the USU EXCELSIOR program, USU TECHNOPARK, and the Development of Transformative Learning Innovation Programs. Furthermore, in the Growing and Strengthening Scientific Culture program, USU prioritizes the development of TALENTA superior research, strengthening research and innovation, and developing downstream innovation and industrial cooperation.

“The research produced at USU must have real relevance and contribution in solving various social, economic, and environmental problems,” said Prof. Muryanto.

 

Prof. Mury said that USU's priorities in solving social and economic problems include increasing sustainable community empowerment and partnership synergies.

 

This annual working visit also evaluates the alignment of faculty programs with the university's strategic plan. The USU Rector said that the university's success is measured not only by academic achievement but also by how USU becomes a driver of change in society.  

 

This visit will continue to other faculties until all faculties within USU receive the same attention and guidance, according to a predetermined schedule.

 

News
SDGs 11
SDGs
SDGs 8
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara