MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Economics And Business
Master's Program In Accounting
Master Program
Accounting
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Master Program in Accounting Science at Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) teaches a deeper understanding of modern accounting theory and practice. With a curriculum designed to strengthen knowledge of international accounting standards and current practices in accounting, students can develop the analytical skills and managerial expertise necessary for success in a professional career in accounting.

In addition, students will be trained to solve complex accounting problems and develop effective strategies in financial decision-making. With strong theoretical and practical teaching, adequate learning facilities, and expert and qualified lecturers, graduates of this program are expected to become influential accounting experts and positively contribute to economic and financial development in Indonesia.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

magister-akuntansi@usu.ac.id

Master's Program in Accounting

Accredited Very Good

No. 2609/SK/BAN-PT/AK-ISK/M/IV/2022

Vision of Master's Program in Accounting

"To become a study program that has academic and professional excellence, responds to the development of science and technology and actively follows the development of accounting science, conducting research and community service that can fulfill national or international market demands"

Mission of Master's Program in Accounting

Graduate Competence

Producing graduates with character and competence in market-oriented accounting.

Lecturer Quality

Improving the quality of the teaching and learning process by empowering and improving the qualifications and quality of lecturers.

Research and Community Service

Developing and improving the implementation of Dharma research and Dharma service as an effort to enhance the quality of accounting science.

Services

Always try to improve services to students as customers and other stakeholders.

Cooperation

Enhancing networks and cooperation with private and government institutions as well as professional organizations and other related institutions of national and international standards.

Science Needs

Maintain the linkage and relevance of all activities to the needs of social, economic, and industrial development globally.

Academic Quality

Implement, develop and improve education, research culture and community service programs in order to improve academic quality by developing superior accounting science, which is beneficial for changing the lives of the wider community for the better.

International Cooperation

Fostering cooperative relationships with various parties both at home and abroad to always maintain the sophistication of the knowledge taught to students.

Motivation

Motivating prospective graduates to become self-employed accountants.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Government Accounting

Financial Accounting

Contact Us
Master's Program in Accounting
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jalan Prof. T.M. Hanafiah, SH. Kampus USU Medan 20155

(061) - 8218532

magister-akuntansi@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara