MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
FIB Prepares An International Accreditation Study Program
FIB Prepares an International Accreditation Study Program
Published At
21 November 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
FIB Prepares an International Accreditation Study Program
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 21 November 2023

Global collaboration and cooperation that provide new opportunities for the advancement of the USU Faculty of Cultural Sciences must be continuously explored. Especially in terms of introducing Indonesian culture to the world, as well as providing an intense influence on the development of global culture," said the USU Rector in his remarks.

USU PR - Faculty of Cultural Sciences (FIB) of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) commemorated the 58th anniversary with a scientific oration entitled "Campus Internationalization in the Frame of National Culture". This activity was also attended by USU Rector Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si and several university leaders to the Consul General of Japan in Medan, Dr. Takonai Susumu at the Prof. T. Amin Ridwan Building, Faculty of Arts USU, Monday (30/10/2023).

At the 58th anniversary of FIB USU, the Rector expressed his support to the Dean and all study programs at FIB in improving performance and achievement so that they can contribute to the progress of USU. One of the things the Rector asked on this occasion was for FIB to expand its networking through various collaborative activities.

"Collaboration and global cooperation that provide new opportunities for the progress of the USU Faculty of Cultural Sciences must be continuously explored. Especially in terms of introducing Indonesian culture to the world, as well as providing an intense influence on the development of global culture," said the USU Rector in his remarks.

In line with this, University Secretary Prof. Dr. dr. Muhammad Fidel Ganis Siregar M.Ked.(OG) Sp.OG (K)-Fer. The internationalization that FIB USU wants to achieve at the age of 58 is USU's cooperation with various universities outside so that it can boost USU's ranking in the world ranking.

"Earlier, the Rector had conveyed the theme of this dies natalis. In the end, this internationalization is USU's cooperation with various universities outside so that it is even closer and more beneficial both for USU and outside universities," he said.

Meanwhile, responding to the theme carried out at the 58th anniversary of FIB USU, the Dean of FIB USU, Prof. Dr. T. Tirhaya Zein, M.A said that the selection of the theme was due to FIB having all components related to literature, language, and culture that could be brought into the international realm.

The Dean of FIB USU divulged that 5 FIB study programs will take part in international accreditation assessments. It is hoped that at the age of 58, FIB will intensify research collaboration related to North Sumatra and Indonesian culture which can be published in journals of international reputation.

"The 5 study programs that have been selected are English Literature, Indonesian Literature, Mandarin Language, Malay Literature, those that have Indonesian characteristics and also the ethnic characteristics of North Sumatra that need to be raised to become internationally accredited study programs," explained the Dean of FIB regarding the international accreditation plan.

For information, at the Japanese Embassy in Medan, Dr. Takonai Susumu as a scientific oration speaker conveyed Japan's experience in dealing with the influx of Western culture into Japan. He hopes that all the material presented will be useful for life.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Dies Natalis
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara