MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Vocational School Holds Innovation Product Development Workshop
USU Vocational School Holds Innovation Product Development Workshop
Published At
28 August 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Vocational School Holds Innovation Product Development Workshop
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 28 August 2023

So in addition to being a ready-to-use graduate, he must also be ready to have a business. So, the most important thing now is that the head of the study program and the secretary of the study program must have thought about what kind of learning will be given to students," said Prof. Isfenti

USU PR - The Faculty of Vocational Studies of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held a workshop on fostering innovative products attended by study program heads, study program secretaries, and lecturers on Monday (14/08/2023) at the USU Vocational Hall. This activity presented two speakers, Prof. Lilis Sukeksi MSc Phd and Prof. Dr. Iskandar Muda SE. M. Si Ak.CA CRSA. CSP. IPSAS. CPA.

Dean of the Faculty of Vocational Studies Prof. Dr. Isfenti Sadalia SE, ME explained that this workshop was held keeping in mind that the Faculty of Vocational Studies is identical with the mastery of certain applied skills such as producing products or services.

"In the framework of the Faculty of Vocational Studies, our output must be in the form of goods and services or it can be said that the point is applied," she said.

To form students who are ready to enter the world of work with sufficient expertise, the Dean of the USU Faculty of Vocational Studies hopes that the heads and secretaries of study programs will immediately create a learning concept that will be given to students accompanied by assistance provided by resource persons to teaching staff.

"So in addition to being a ready-to-use graduate, ready to work, he must also be ready to have a business. Well, so the most important thing now is that the head of the study program and the secretary of the study program must have thought about what kind of learning will be given to students," she said.

Prof. Lilis Sukeksi, M.Sc PhD as a resource person saw that Indonesia has abundant natural resources but the community does not seem to be fully prosperous because it is still fixated on selling raw materials. Therefore, it is necessary to downstream the natural resources so that the products traded have added value.

Prof. Lilis Sukeksi, M.Sc PhD hopes that students will take a big role to be more creative in producing innovative products that provide benefits and impacts to society.

"For this vocational program, I see that our natural resources are extremely rich, but the people are not prosperous, because we have never commercialized anything from our natural resources. We always sell raw so there is no added value," she said.

"My hope is that students will be more creative in producing useful innovative products. what we are thinking about now is how it will impact the community," she said

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Management
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara