MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Medicine
Specialist-1 Program In Neurology
Spesialist-1 Program
Neurology
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Specialist Program in Neurology of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), established in 1980, studies the skills to diagnose and treat various neurological disorders, including stroke and epilepsy. As Indonesia's 7th neurology teaching center, the program is committed to creating a quality-oriented and modern management higher education environment for its students to compete nationally and internationally.

With fifteen permanent lecturers who are dedicated, competent, and qualified in the field of neuroscience, graduates of this study program can confidently handle various conditions related to the human nervous system appropriately and proficiently. Students who have completed this study program will hold the Neurology Specialist (Sp.N.) degree.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

admin@neuro-usu.id

Specialist-1 Program in Neurology

Accredited Excellent

No. 0032/LAM-PTKes/Akr/Spe/I/2023

Vision of Specialist-1 Program in Neurology

To become a leading neurology education center in the fields of Neurovascular and Neuroinfection at the regional and national levels by the year 2025.

Mission of Specialist-1 Program in Neurology

Clinical and Modern Education

To organize clinical-based and modern learning technology-oriented neurology specialist doctor professional education in the fields of Neurovascular and Neuroinfection.

Oriented on Patient Care

To organize clinical education for specialist doctors in neurology oriented on Neurology patient care, particularly in the fields of Neurovascular and Neuroinfection.

Research

To organize innovative basic and applied research as well as policy studies to support the development of neurology specialist doctor education oriented on community service in the fields of Neurovascular and Neuroinfection.

Community Service

To dedicate expertise in the fields of science, technology, and humanities, especially in neurology, particularly the fields of Neurovascular and Neuroinfection, as a manifestation of community service.

Education System Development

To strive for the development of an education system that is oriented towards modern management and quality that will enhance competitiveness nationally and internationally.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Neuroinfections

Neurooncology

Contact Us
Specialist-1 Program in Neurology
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Bunga Lau No.17, Kemenangan Tani, Kec. Medan Tuntungan, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20136

(061) - 8360885

admin@neuro-usu.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara