MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Vice Rector III Inaugurated As Permanent Professor
USU Vice Rector III Inaugurated as Permanent Professor
Published At
01 December 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Vice Rector III Inaugurated as Permanent Professor
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 01 December 2021

"Professors are tasked with developing and exemplifying innovative learning programs, producing research collaborations with international publications of reputable quality and possessing competent copyrights that are exported and commercialized," said the Rector.

USU PR - Vice Rector (WR) III Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan., S.Si., M.Si., Apt was inaugurated as USU's 175th permanent professor. With Dr. Sutiarnoto, S.H., M.Hum., who became the 174th permanent professor, the inauguration took place at the USU Auditorium, Friday (11/26/2021).

USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., said the board of professors is a role model to provide ideas and create scientific products according to competence in their respective fields.

"Professors are tasked with developing and exemplifying innovative learning programs, producing research collaborations with the quality of international publications that are reputable and have competent copyrights that are exported and commercialized," the Rector said.

The Rector hopes, Prof. Dr. Sutiarnoto., SH, M. Hum from the Faculty of Law and Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan., S.Si., M.Sc., Apt from the Faculty of Pharmacy can advance the publication of innovation and community service.

“The inauguration speech delivered by the inaugurated board of professors has the urgency of science in creating important innovations. We are waiting for creative and innovative ideas to be enthusiastic about giving benefits to humanity," he said.

In the inauguration, Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan., S.Si, M.Sc., Apt delivered an inaugural speech entitled "Potential of Bangun-bangun Leaf as a Local Wisdom in Breast Cancer Drug Development."

Prof. Dr. Poppy explained that breast cancer is the main cause of death for women. More than half of breast cancer patients are in developing countries. Therefore, efforts to find new drugs that are safe and selective need to be carried out.

“Indonesia has traditional and herbal medicines that have been used for generations; this needs to be tested. The trend of people who go back to nature motivates researchers to look for cancer drugs from natural compounds because in reality there is no cancer drug that is truly selective," he said.

The Bangun plant is a native plant commonly consumed by the Batak people in North Sumatra. Bangun-bangun is a medicinal plant that is used as a vegetable because it can increase the quantity of breast milk and accelerate post-natal healing by the Batak community since hundreds of years.

"There needs to be further studies on the effect of this leaf on the hormone system which is likely to have a relationship with the progression of breast cancer," he said.

Meanwhile, Prof. Dr. Sutiarnoto., SH, M.Hum delivered his inaugural speech entitled "The Interests of Developing Countries in the WTO Dispute Resolution System Indonesia Case Study."

He said that if you look at the existing data starting from the operation of the WTO until 2006, it was found that the dominance of submitting disputes quantitatively and significantly has been carried out by groups of developed countries.

“Developing countries generally lack general capacity to the point of reducing their ability to participate fully in WTO disputes. This condition can erode their trust in the multilateral regime,” Prof. Dr. Sutiarnoto said.

He added that the WTO accommodates the interests of developing countries through various provisions, generally referring to the specificities and privileges provided. It is designed to result in a developing country integration process. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang, Muhammad Andriansyah - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara