MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Psychology
Master's Program In Psychological Science
Master Program
Psychologic Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Master's Program in Psychological Science is a postgraduate psychology education that students can take from various undergraduate majors.

Established in December 2011, education in the Master Program in Psychological Science explores the science of psychology in depth and comprehensively to produce graduates who can solve problems through a scientific approach based on psychological principles, as well as conduct output-based research to develop science, especially in the fields of agro-industry and technology and the field of psychology in multi-ethnic communities, both national and international communities.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

mpsains@usu.ac.id

Master's Program in Psychological Science

Accredited Very Good

No. 3056/SK/BAN-PT/Ak.KP/M/VIII/2023

Vision of Master's Program in Psychological Science

Becoming a center for developing local wisdom-based education with academic excellence that can compete globally.

Mission of Master's Program in Psychological Science

Education

Organizing quality psychology education in multi-ethnic communities at the master's level.

Research

Carrying out output-based quality research to develop comprehensive and innovative knowledge in the field of psychology in multi-ethnic communities.

Community Service

Carrying out community service to disseminate problem-solving-oriented knowledge to improve psychological knowledge in multi-ethnic communities.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Contact Us
Master's Program in Psychological Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Dr. Mansyur No.7, Padang Bulan, Medan, Sumatera Utara 20155

(+62)-618229309

mpsains@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara