MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
MWA USU: Continuing To Monitor USU Rolling Process Towards The Aspired Progress And Glory
MWA USU: Continuing to Monitor USU Rolling Process towards the Aspired Progress and Glory
Published At
04 October 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
MWA USU: Continuing to Monitor USU Rolling Process towards the Aspired Progress and Glory
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 04 October 2021

MEDAN – USU PUBLIC RELATIONS: In a routine “Apel Pagi” on Monday (9/20/2021) at the courtyard of the USU Central Administration Bureau, Secretary of the Universitas Sumatera Utara Board of Trustess (MWA USU) Prof. dr. Guslihan Dasatjipta, Sp.A (K) was the ceremonial supervisor. In his mandate, he conveyed the commitment of MWA USU to oversee the process of the development of USU in achieving its ideals and goals.

“MWA is committed to continuing to oversee the process of moving USU towards the progress and glory that is aspires to. We also hope and always pray that all leaders and the academic community of the Universitas Sumatera Utara will always be in good health and in the protection of Allah SWI, so that they are able to give their best dedication to the nation and state,” Prof. Guslihan said.

He said that MWA USU hope that USU is able to produce excellent graduates and able to increase human resources that support the progress of the nation. According to him, USU graduates must be able to compete in a competitive situation at the global level.

“MWA hopes that USU can move faster to support government programs in producing superior human resources, out of the box, ready for the future and future proof. Future graduates are not only required to be ready to work according to the criteria desired by the business world, but also to be ready to create jobs and full of innovative ideas that can be applied to support development, as well as agile and strong to survive in a competitive situation at the global level,” he said.

On that occasion he also said that MWA appreciated all efforts made by university leaders to improve the quality of USU graduates and continue to work towards campus internationalization. MWA supports various policies taken by university leaders to improve and optimize all performance aspects at USU.

“We hope that all of these efforts will continue to be maintained in a solid rhythm and speed to have a significant impact on change and achieve what has been mandated in the 2020-2024 USU Strategic Plan and become part of the Rector’s Performance Program for the 2021-2026 period,” the Secretary of MWA USU said.

MWA also encourages USU to be able to continue to contribute and play an active role in dealing with the Covid-19. He advised USU to use all available resources to help the government fight the epidemic.

“In the midst of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, USU is expected to be able to optimize the implementation of higher education in a sustainable manner by mobilizing all available resources simultaneously and in parallel with high commitment and integrity supported by the advantages and characteristics of USU as a university that is standing the midst of a pluralistic society that is dynamic and capable of being supported by its resources,” he said.

He closed his message by conveying the concern and involvement of all stakeholders who synergize with each other in a collaborative form to be important and serious in supporting the vision and mission of USU as a university that has academic excellence as a barometer of scientific progress that is able to compete at the global level.(RR/©ULC)

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - PR

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara