MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
34th PIMNAS - Meetings Of Vice Rectors In Indonesia Become A Policy Reference For Higher Education
34th PIMNAS - Meetings of Vice Rectors in Indonesia Become a Policy Reference for Higher Education
Published At
10 November 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
34th PIMNAS - Meetings of Vice Rectors in Indonesia Become a Policy Reference for Higher Education
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 10 November 2021

"Each university has its own way of managing the field of student affairs. There will be an exchange of information, sharing experience, and sharing knowledge through this gathering. From that, it can be a reference for us to be able to set policies related to student affairs," said the USU Rector.

USU PR - Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., officially opened the Vice Rector Meeting for Student Affairs throughout Indonesia on Friday (10/29/2021) at the USU Auditorium Building as part of the 34th National Student Scientific Week (PIMNAS). The vice Rectors attended the activity for student affairs at universities throughout Indonesia.

At the meeting, the USU rector said that this workshop was a communication forum for providing references and input related to campus policies. He emphasized that each university has its way of managing the student field.

"Each university has its way of managing the field of student affairs. There will be an exchange of information, sharing experience, and sharing knowledge through this gathering. From that, it can be a reference for us to be able to set policies related to student affairs," the USU Rector said.

He realized that universities today face many obstacles. He discussed implementing the Independent Learning-Independent Campus program launched by the Ministry of Education and Culture, Research and Technology.

"Currently, we are facing many obstacles. One of them is the implementation of the MBKM program. We have heard that there will be many obstacles in the early years of this implementation. We can discuss the acceleration of solving each of these obstacles through the workshop," he said.

Cooperation between universities must continue to be improved and reformulated by uniting thoughts and perceptions between universities. Collaborative virtual education spaces within the tri dharma corridor must be built and rearranged by utilizing all available resources in each university.

According to him, practicing lecturers as a mandate in implementing the MBKM program requires appropriate handling and policies. Not without reason, the presence of practitioner lecturers certainly requires a different approach, considering they are practitioners from various agencies.

"We must also treat this practitioner lecturer wisely. Practicing lecturers in the MBKM program are expected to provide students with knowledge. However, in practice, we need to discuss this to guide practitioner lecturers," he continued.

Muryanto emphasized that the implementation of the MBKM had an impact on the implementation of PIMNAS. According to him, the implementation of MBKM increases students' knowledge, which they can later use to develop ideas and contest ideas at PIMNAS.

"Through MBKM, students will gain a lot of knowledge. This knowledge is to increase student innovation, which they can put into the form of ideas and ideas to be contested at PIMNAS," he said. (©ULC)

Author: Renny Julia Harahap, Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Muhammad Andriansyah, Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara