MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
University Activity
USU Lecturers Provide News Writing Literacy Strengthening For Students
USU Lecturers Provide News Writing Literacy Strengthening for Students
Published At
30 October 2023
Published By
David Kevin Handel Hutabarat
USU Lecturers Provide News Writing Literacy Strengthening for Students
 

Published by

David Kevin Handel Hutabarat

Published at

Monday, 30 October 2023

Writing news is one of the skills that students need to master. Seeing this urgency, the community service team consisting of Prof. Dr. Humaizi, Prof. Dr. R. Hamdani Harahap, and Muhammad Yusuf, M.A. carried out activities to strengthen and improve the literacy of SMA Negeri 1 Stabat students in writing news texts through a genre-based approach.

Writing news is a skill that students need to master. Seeing this urgency, the community service team consisting of Prof. Dr. Humaizi, Prof. Dr. R. Hamdani Harahap, and Muhammad Yusuf, M.A., carried out activities to strengthen and improve the literacy of SMA Negeri 1 Stabat students in writing news texts through a genre-based approach. This activity aims to equip students with strong news writing skills relevant to the times' demands.

The event was held on September 23, 2023, at the SMA Negeri 1 Stabat Hall and was attended by 20 male and female students. This activity aims to improve the ability to write news texts and provide in-depth training to students in writing informative, clear, and interesting news texts. In addition, it also introduces an effective genre-based approach to teach students the structure and characteristics of news texts, encourages students' interest in the world of journalism explores various news topics, and conducts evaluation and development by providing helpful feedback to students so that they can continue to improve their news writing skills.

Prof. Dr. Humaizi, M.A., a professor of communication science at the USU Faculty of Social and Political Sciences, emphasized that writing good and reliable news is very important for students to meet the demands of the times. Of course, writing good news must meet the existing elements and rules, so training is needed for students. This activity is also part of the learning curriculum in Indonesian and English at the high school level.

The principal of SMAN 1 Stabat, Nano Prihatin, M.Psi., welcomed the activity with joy. "I hope the USU Community Service Team can provide their knowledge to my students. Thank you to USU for paying attention to our students in the Langkat area," he said.

The training on how to create news texts was carried out by Muhammad Yusuf, M.A., also the Secretary of the English Literature Study Program, USU Faculty of Cultural Sciences, accompanied by questions, answers, and interaction by the training participants. The event was closed with news text writing exercises and a group photo. The community service team expressed their appreciation and gratitude to the students, LPPM USU, and SMA Negeri 1 Stabat. (*)

University Activity
Community Service Activity
Find More Activity
University Activity
USU Lecturer Concern on the Extinction of Orangutan Tapanuli
University Activity
USU professor turns shrimp shell waste into face serum
University Activity
USU Research Collaboration Lowers Stunting Rate in Sergai

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara