MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Coordination Meeting With MWA, Rector: Student Admissions Will Expand
Coordination Meeting with MWA, Rector: Student Admissions Will Expand
Published At
19 July 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Coordination Meeting with MWA, Rector: Student Admissions Will Expand
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 19 July 2022

The Rector of USU said that USU would improve in the academic field, one of which was the admission of new students. This year USU will open new student admissions through an independent path and in 2023 USU will expand the admissions path, especially for students who excel in order to qualify for USU.

Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si attended the Coordination Meeting of the Board of Trustees (MWA), the Academic Senate (SA), and the Board of Professors (DGB) which discussed academic reform at USU. The activity took place in the Senate Courtroom of the Central Bureau of Administration, on Wednesday (7/6/2022).

The Rector of USU said that USU would improve in the academic field, one of which was the admission of new students. This year USU will open new student admissions through independent pathways and in 2023 USU will expand new student admissions paths, especially for students who excel in order to qualify for USU through existing achievement pathways.

"USU will expand the admissions path for new students, so that outstanding students can enter and choose USU as their campus," he said.

The USU Rector also said that there would be a plan to change the diploma three (D3) study program to a vocational diploma four (D4) and it would be turned into an applied science that leads to agricultural products, especially North Sumatra products. And this will be determined for all faculties at USU.

"There will be a plan to change the D3 study program to D4 in all faculties at USU," he said.

Chairman of the Board of Trustees (MWA) Dr. Nurmala Kartini Pandjaitan Sjahrir said that with the coordination meeting between the MWA, the Academic Senate, and the Board of Professors, there would be improvements so that the campus could be better. And this improvement is to meet the interests of the campus, especially for the benefit of students.

"There will be improvements to the campus so that the interests of the campus are met, especially for the interests of students," she concluded.

In line with this, the Chair of the Academic Senate, Prof. Dr. Suwarto, SH, MH said that there would be a process of improvement in preparation for accreditation, because there are several study programs at the USU faculty to be able to complete the existing standards, in order to raise name of USU to national and international level.

"In preparing for accreditation, there is a need for complete standards so that USU can raise its name at the national and international levels," he stressed.

Secretary of the Board of Professors Prof. Dr. Tamrin M.Sc said that to advance USU, the Board of Professors stipulates that all lecturers at USU must express their thoughts in writing journals so that they are registered on Scopus, especially at Quartile one (Q1) or at least Quartile two (Q2).

"All lecturers at USU must express their ideas to write journals so that they are listed on Scopus at the Q1 or Q2 level," he said.

The Secretary of DGB also hopes that USU's internet is better and faster and pays attention to the infrastructure at USU, especially in the laboratory so that students have complete tools for research or study. With the complete infrastructure, it is hoped that USU will be able to compete at the national and international levels. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Admission
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara