MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Strengthening EQUITY, USU Rector Inaugurates 6 Professor
Strengthening EQUITY, USU Rector Inaugurates 6 Professor
Published At
13 November 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Strengthening EQUITY, USU Rector Inaugurates 6 Professor
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 13 November 2023

We designed the EQUITY program to facilitate university targets through one of its activities called staff development, explained Prof. Muryanto

USU PR - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held the Inauguration Ceremony of Six Permanent USU Professors, at the USU Student Center, Thursday (26/10/2023). This inauguration is expected to strengthen the Enhancing Quality Education for International University Recognition (EQUITY) program launched this year.

The six inaugurated professors are Prof. Luthfi Aziz Mahmud Siregar, S.P., M.Sc., Ph.D. from the Faculty of Agriculture; Prof. Ir. Rosnani Ginting MT., Ph.D., from the Faculty of Engineering; Prof. Saharman Gea, S.Si., M.Si. Ph.D from Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences; Prof. Dr. dr. Syah Mirsya Warli, Sp. U(K) from Faculty of Medicine; Prof. Dr. Dedy Hermansyah, Sp.B, Subsp.Onk(K) from Faculty of Medicine; and Dr. dr. Dewi Masyithah Darlan, DAP & E.MPH.Sp.Park. from Faculty of Medicine.

USU Rector Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin S.Sos., M.Si., in his remarks, highlighted that the Council of Professors is the pillar of the university's intellectual strength, which has been determined in the RPJP, Renstra, and RKA formulations every fiscal year. With firm determination, during 2021-2022, USU has embraced the motto "Transformation Toward the Ultimate".

"Our six flagship programs consist of institutional improvement and adaptation of tridharma tasks, infrastructure restructuring, campus digitalization revolution, campus enterprise, and cooperation efforts," explained Prof. Muryanto.

Furthermore, the USU Rector is committed to facilitating the Council of Professors to make productive contributions. USU has started a curriculum change program, which allows students to study off campus and organizes collaborative education, research, and community service through digitalization and infrastructure.

"We will continue to run the innovation program without stopping, by holding the principle of transformation for tridharma services," said Prof. Muryanto.

The USU Rector is also optimistic that the addition of professors will strengthen the EQUITY program, improving the quality of lecturers and students through international and industrial collaborations by making changes in the learning approach and innovations in the curriculum.

"We designed the EQUITY program to facilitate university targets. One of the activities is the development of staff or lecturers who will collaborate with many parties to carry out the Tri Dharma of Higher Education," explained Prof. Muryanto.

While in his inaugural speech, Prof. Dr. dr. Syah Mirsya Warli, Sp. U(K) reminded us about the importance of utilizing the current demographic bonus, where the millennial generation will become the advanced generation. As well as highlighting the need for early detection of prostate cancer so that the quality of life in the future can be improved, so that the millennial generation can become the golden generation.

"So we take advantage of the demographic bonus, by utilizing support in the form of facilities and infrastructure assistance from the government," said Prof. Syah.

Meanwhile, Prof. Ir. Nurlisa Ginting M.Sc., Ph.D as a lecturer at the Faculty of Engineering, highlighted the important contributions made by all Professors at USU, focusing on their study programs. And it is expected to push USU's ranking and reputation to a higher level, both at the national and international levels.

"We hope that the contributions of professors to research and patents can strengthen USU's national and international presence," said Prof. Nurlisa.

For your information, the process of applying for professors at Universitas Sumatera Utara, from 2021-2023, amounted to 102 people. As of today, 68 people or 66.6% have received a Professor Appointment Decree and 19 people are in the process of improving the required documents.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Muhammad Andriansyah - Humas

News
Education
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara