MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Faculty Of Law Public Lecture On Local Wisdom In Industrial Revolution 4.0 Era
USU Faculty of Law Public Lecture on Local Wisdom in Industrial Revolution 4.0 Era
Published At
25 September 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Faculty of Law Public Lecture on Local Wisdom in Industrial Revolution 4.0 Era
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Sunday, 25 September 2022

"This event is actually the first symbolic lecture of the USU Faculty of Law's Customary Law course, but in this inaugural lecture we also introduce team teaching of everything in the Customary Law course," explained Prof. lucky.

HUMAS - The Faculty of Law (FH) of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held a public lecture with the title "Local Wisdom in the Era of the Industrial Revolution 4.0". The material was directly delivered by the Professor of Customary Law of the USU Faculty of Law, Prof. Dr. Runtung Sitepu, S, H., M. Hum at the USU Student Center on Monday (09/12/2022). This public lecture is the first lecture for the Customary Law course at USU's Faculty of Law.

Prof. Dr. Runtung Sitepu, S, H., M.Hum explained that this inaugural lecture aimed to introduce the entire teaching team of Customary Law and at the same time bring together students who took the USU Faculty of Law Customary Law course.

"This event is actually the first symbolic lecture of the USU Faculty of Law's Customary Law course, but in this inaugural lecture we also introduce team teaching of everything in the Customary Law course," explained Prof. lucky.

In the public lecture, Prof. Dr. Runtung Sitepu, S, H., M. Hum explained to students that customary law is still popular even in developed countries. In addition, it is important to understand customary law because basically the laws and regulations in Indonesia to date are based on customary law. So that it can increase the interest of students to follow the material about customary law.

"I want to explain to them that existing laws are still popular in developed countries, everywhere so that by mentioning the importance of understanding this customary law, it increases their interest in following the lecturers' material," he said.

Prof. Dr. Runtung Sitepu, S, H., M.Hum hopes that students can see the importance of customary law, it is hoped that the younger generation can encourage the immediate realization of the draft law on indigenous peoples and become a priority scale for the legislative process in the DPR RI so that it becomes a law.

"We hope that the younger generation will encourage this bill for customary law communities to become a priority scale in the legislative process in the DPR RI so that it can become a law," he said.

Deputy Dean I Dr. Agusmidah, SH., M. Hum said that the local wisdom course is a university policy to be applied and taken by cross-study programs. For USU's Faculty of Law, there is a Customary Law course which is a local wisdom course. So the USU FH held a public lecture on Local Wisdom and invited the USU FH Law Professor of Customary Law as a resource person.

"Indeed, this local wisdom course is a university policy to be applied and can be taken by cross study programs and today, because there are quite a lot of enthusiasts, a public lecture was held by summoning a professor of customary law from the USU Faculty of Law," explained Vice Dean I FH USU.

As additional information in the public lecture, there were a series of entertainment performances presented by students. The performance was full of local wisdom by performing regional dances, singing regional songs, and others. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - HUMAS

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsyad Mulyadi - HUMAS

News
Education
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara