MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Cultural Science
Master's Program In Arts Creation And Studies
Master Program
Arts Creation and Studies
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Master's Program in Arts Creation and Studies of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is a study program that focuses on the creative and analytical aspects of art. With a comprehensive curriculum and teaching supported by lecturers who are experts in their fields, this program aims to develop a broad understanding of art and its creation process.

Students will engage in practical and theoretical learning about various art forms, including visual arts, performing arts, and literature, and have the opportunity to develop their own artworks. Graduates of this program are expected to be creative, innovative thinkers and art practitioners who contribute to the development of culture and the arts at the local and global levels. After graduating from this study program, students will hold the Master of Arts (M.Sn.) degree.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

pps@usu.ac.id

Master's Program in Arts Creation and Studies

Accredited A

No. 2764/SK/BAN-PT/Ak.Ppj/M/VII/2023

Vision of Master's Program in Arts Creation and Studies

The Master's Program in Arts Creation of the Universitas Sumatera Utara Faculty of Cultural Science and Studies will become an excellent higher education institution in the field of cross-cultural arts creation and studies as well as play an active role in global civilization by the year 2025.

Mission of Master's Program in Arts Creation and Studies

Quality Education

To provide nationally and globally recognized quality education.

Research

To advance research in the field of arts creation and studies that promotes scientific and technological progress for the interest of humanity.

Community Service

To conduct community service with an artistic perspective to fulfill societal needs.

Cooperation

To establish cooperation with businesses and institutions, both domestic and international, in the field of arts to develop education, research, and community service.

Competent Graduates

To prepare graduates with competence in arts, character, ethics, innovation, honesty, leadership spirit, and concern for societal issues in the field of arts.

Study Center

To establish a center of studies on the ethnic arts of Nusantara, encompassing artistic artifacts and literature resulting from research.

Practice Venue

To create a practice venue for training in performing and visual arts with a main characteristic of the ethnic arts of North Sumatra.

Joint Studies

To conduct joint studies on the ethnic arts of Nusantara with similar institutions, such as the Institut Seni Indonesia (ISBI) Aceh, Institut Seni Indonesia (ISI) Padang Panjang, ISI Bandung, Institut Kesenian Jakarta, ISI Yogyakarta, ISI Surakarta, and others, of which the outcomes of these studies will be published in joint journals, both nationally and internationally, to develop similar disciplines.

Cultural Performances

To develop Nusantara art prototypes for cultural performances at a global level.

Transparent, Accountable, and Democratic

To develop a transparent, accountable, and democratic management system for the Arts Creation and Studies Study Program.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Contact Us
Master's Program in Arts Creation and Studies
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Universitas No. 19, Kampus Universitas Sumatera Utara, Padangbulan, Medan, 20155.

(061) - 895294

pps@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara