MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
EMPU FIB USU Successful Performance Tour In Jakarta And Bogor
EMPU FIB USU Successful Performance Tour in Jakarta and Bogor
Published At
16 December 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
EMPU FIB USU Successful Performance Tour in Jakarta and Bogor
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Monday, 16 December 2024

The founder and main composer, Ahmad Arief Tarigan, stated that this tour was the second performance since EMPU was founded at the end of 2023. The lecturer of the Ethnomusicology Study Program at FIB USU added that through the performance tour, in addition to insight and field experience, EMPU students also practice art management and expand cultural networks.

Through the performance tour, in addition to insight and field experience, EMPU students also practice art management and expand cultural networks.

 

The poetry musicalization group EMPU (Ethnomusicology Poetry Musicalization) successfully toured performances in Jakarta and Bogor on October 27 to October 31, 2024. This success made the group, which is a combination of lecturers and students of the Ethnomusicology Study Program at FIB USU, even more determined to continue working on the path of poetry musicalization.

 

The founder and main composer, Ahmad Arief Tarigan, stated that this tour was the second performance since EMPU was founded at the end of 2023. The lecturer of the Ethnomusicology Study Program at FIB USU added that through the performance tour, in addition to insight and field experience, EMPU students also practice art management and expand cultural networks.

 

“This tour is the second time (performance-ed) after yesterday performing in front of Professors throughout Indonesia at the USU DLCB building last June 2024. For art management and tour travel, I leave it to the student members of EMPU. They also need to interact and network with artists or culturalists outside North Sumatra,” explained Arief when interviewed.

 

Arief added that the performance tour at Balai Pustaka Palace of Civilization Jakarta, Bogor City Square, Taman Ismail Marzuki Jakarta, and Warung Apresiasi Bulungan Jakarta was held as a celebration of Youth Pledge Day and Indonesian Language Month 2024. The airfare for the EMPU group's departure and return was facilitated by the Indonesiana Fund of the Ministry of Education and Culture. Meanwhile, the location and performance equipment were facilitated by the Indonesian Poetry Musicalization Community, Raptama Foundation, Balai Pustaka, Kebon Sastra Bogor, Jakarta Arts Council, and Warung Apresiasi Bulungan Jakarta.

 

President Director of PT Balai Pustaka, Dr. Achmad Fachrodji, in his speech said that Balai Pustaka is a witness to the history of Indonesia's national journey. Balai Pustaka is a publishing house that produced many works of writers and national movement figures, including promoting the Malay language which later became the united language of Indonesia.

 

“In our history, Balai Pustaka is a publication that spreads the seeds of nationality through the literary works of writers and national movement figures. This includes promoting the Indonesian language as pledged in the Youth Pledge on October 28, 1928,” explained Achmad Fachrodji during the opening of the EMPU concert at Balai Pustaka Literary Cafe in Matraman Jakarta, Sunday (27/10/2024).

 

Fachrodji admitted that he was happy to receive EMPU's arrival to perform poetry musicalization. According to him, Balai Pustaka is a place for arts activists to express and collaborate to develop the treasures of Indonesian culture.

 

Furthermore, in the Bogor city square on Monday night (28/10/2024), EMPU performed with poets and performers of poetry musicalization. Some names of national artists such as Fikar W. Eda, Deavies Sanggar Matahari, Anto Baret, Amien Kamil, Ace Sumanta, Herie Matahari, Dedie Syahnila Putra Siregar, Devie Matahari, etc. were mentioned. Even though it rained briefly, hundreds of spectators seemed to enjoy the arts presented by the Rekkam Art Festival organized by Kebon Sastra Bogor.

 

Moving on from Bogor, EMPU continued its performance at Taman Ismail Marzuki on Wednesday night (30/10/2024). The performance, facilitated by the Jakarta Arts Council, took place on the stage of the Jakarta Theater Festival wing.

 

As a closing tour, the next day EMPU performed at Warung Apresiasi Bulungan Jakarta on Thursday night (31/10/2024). The event, which was also held as a commemoration of the 44th anniversary of Deavies Sanggar Matahari's work journey and in memory of the artist Ane Matahari, EMPU had a stage collaboration with Fikar W. Eda, Deavies Sanggar Matahari, and Anto Baret.

 

From the whole performance, EMPU performed five works of poetry musicalization, namely: Ode Pada Mahaguru (poem of Ahmad Arief Tarigan & Heristina Dewi); Padamu Jua (poem of Amir Hamzah); Berdiri Aku (poem of Amir Hamzah); Hilang dari Peta (poem of Endra Suandi), and; Atas Nama Hak Untuk Hidup (poem of Ahmad Arief Tarigan).

 

EMPU itself consists of Ahmad Arief Tarigan, Choiri Alwi, Tri Handayani Daeli, Margaretha Hutagaol, Inggrid Melan Lumbanbatu, Ngolu Vinsen Capah, Aprilindo Sitanggang, Thean Soray F Manao, and Adventus Sinurat.

 

Last but not least, EMPU would like to express its gratitude for the assistance from many parties, including the Indonesiana Fund of the Ministry of Education and Culture of the Republic of Indonesia, the Dean of the Faculty of Cultural Sciences of the Universitas Sumatera Utara, Professor Budi Agustono, Mrs. Dra. Heristina Dewi M.Pd, the Indonesian Poetry Musicalization Community, Yayasan Raptama, Balai Pustaka, Kebon Sastra Bogor, the Jakarta Arts Council, Warung Apresiasi Bulungan Jakarta, and the Ethnomusicology Big Family of FIB USU.(RJ)

News
SDGs 11
SDGs
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara