MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU HR Bureau Workshop On Handling Discipline Problems For Lecturers And Education Personnel
USU HR Bureau Workshop on Handling Discipline Problems for Lecturers and Education Personnel
Published At
14 November 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU HR Bureau Workshop on Handling Discipline Problems for Lecturers and Education Personnel
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 14 November 2022

"Yesterday we discussed with the leadership that we must achieve international targets. For that there is much to be accomplished, there is a deputy director who of course handles international matters specifically with international matters," USU Vice Rector II said.

USU Public Relations - The Human Resources Bureau of the Universitas Sumatera Utara held a Workshop on Handling Discipline Problems for Lecturers and Education Personnel at the Universitas Sumatera Utara, Wednesday (11/09/2022).

This activity lasted for 2 days, on November 9-10, 2022 at the LePolonia Hotel, by inviting the Medan City State Civil Service Agency (BKN) as a resource person.

In his remarks, Deputy Rector II for Human Resources and Finance at the Universitas Sumatera Utara Muhammad Arifin Nasution, S.Sos., M.SP said that this activity was held to make improvements to the basic foundation of human resources at the Universitas Sumatera Utara.

"Yesterday we discussed with the leadership that we must achieve international targets. For that there is much to be achieved, there is a deputy director who of course deals specifically with international matters," USU Vice Rector II said.

In addition, this activity is related to Government Regulation (PP) Number 94 of 2021 regarding the discipline of work unit leaders.

Analysis of Youth Employment Regional Office VI Medan City State Personnel Agency, Eni Nuraini, SH., MH. explained the objective of this activity was to increase discipline in civil servants at USU.

"The workshop was held or the participants were unit leaders or direct supervisors who had the authority to be able to impose disciplinary punishment on civil servants who committed civil servant violations," she said.

The participants who took part in this activity are the unit heads who have the authority to be able to impose disciplinary penalties on civil servants who committed violations.

From this activity the unit head will understand the limits of his authority which can be carried out such as a summons for an examination and if it is not his authority then it can be submitted to his superiors.

Eni Nuraini, SH., MH. hoped that the participants will be able to uphold discipline within USU and be able to implement it in their respective units so that the orderly implementation of tasks at the Universitas Sumatera Utara is maintained.

"The expectation is that the ladies and gentlemen of the participants can understand the enforcement of civil servant discipline at the Universitas Sumatera Utara, so that we can both guarantee the orderliness of the implementation of tasks at the Universitas Sumatera Utara," she concluded. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Management
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara