MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Computer Science And Information Technology
Undergraduate Program In Computer Science
Undergraduate Program
Computer Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

As a study program that has been accredited Excellent and established since 2001, the Undergraduate Program in Computer Science of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) has produced numerous outstanding students and created qualified computer experts spread throughout Indonesia. The program aims to teach the science of computing, hardware management, and computer software development.

Taught by experts in the field of information technology with national teaching certificates and supported by an integrated curriculum, we have a deep commitment in providing our students with an interactive education and learning experiences in the hope that they will become the best in the field of information technology, competence, and able to compete in the era of digitalization, both on a national and international scale. Graduates of our program have extensive career opportunities in various digital fields, such as software engineers, web designers, information technology consultants, and many more.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

ilkom@usu.ac.id

Undergraduate Program in Computer Science

Accredited Unggul

No. 056/SK/LAM-INFOKOM/Ak/S/III/2024

Vision of Undergraduate Program in Computer Science

To become a research-based Computer Science Study Program that is adaptive, collaborative, and creative with international standards, especially in the fields of artificial intelligence, infrastructure and security, and software engineering.

Mission of Undergraduate Program in Computer Science

BINTANG Character

To prepare Computer Science academicians who have the character of BINTANG (Devoted to Almighty God in the frame of diversity, Innovative and has Integrity, Resilient and Wise) and are ready to compete in the global community.

Education

To improve Education in the field of Computer Science, especially in the areas of expertise of artificial intelligence, infrastructure and security, and software engineering.

Research

To develop Research in the field of Computer Science and innovative technology that can contribute to Society’s quality of life in the frame of Tropical Science and Medicine, Agroindustry, Local Wisdom, Energy [sustainable], Natural Resources [biodiversity, forest marine, mine, tourism], Technology [appropriate] and Arts [ethnic] (TALENTA) USU.

Community Service

To organize Community Service by utilizing information and computer technology to improve Society’s quality of life.

Cooperation

To establish Cooperation with graduate users on an ongoing basis in the fields of research, community service, and field work practice to improve the quality of education.

Professional Organizations

To play an active role in higher education professional organizations in the field of computer science to answer stakeholder needs.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Internet of Things

Cyber Security

Cryptography

Data Science

Microcontroller

Contact Us
Undergraduate Program in Computer Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Gedung D Fasilkom-TI, Universitas Sumatera Utara, Jl. Alumni No.3, Padang Bulan, Kec. Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20155

(061) 8211633

ilkom@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara