MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Community Service Program Is Oriented To 21st Century Skill
USU Community Service Program is Oriented to 21st Century Skill
Published At
23 August 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Community Service Program is Oriented to 21st Century Skill
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 23 August 2022

The Rector hopes that through this program it can become a means of infrastructure for the development of the Tri Dharma of Higher Education, support the achievement of IKU (Key Performance Indicators), and improve the quality of USU graduates because this program is oriented to have 21st century skills required for the industrial era 4.0.

PR USU - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held a debriefing activity for the 2022 USU Thematic Community Service Program (KKNT) with the title, "Learning and Working in the Village". The activity was officially opened by the Rector of USU, Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., at the USU Auditorium on Friday (8/12/2022). USU KKNT program is one of the MBKM program activities.

USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos, M.Sc., said this program is a form of education that provides direct learning experiences for students to live in rural communities with the objectives of honing soft skills and hard skills in partnership and student leadership in managing development programs in rural areas.

"This program is a form of education that provides direct learning experiences for students to live in a village community," said the Rector.

The Rector hopes that through this program it can be a means of infrastructure for the development of the Tri Dharma of Higher Education, support the achievement of IKU (Key Performance Indicators), and improve the quality of USU graduates because this program is oriented to have 21st century skills required for the industrial era 4.0.

"Oriented to have 21st century skills is required in the Industry 4.0 era, including communication, collaboration, critical thinking, creative thinking, as well as developing reasoning power, and caring," he said.

Chairman of the USU Community Service Institute (LPPM) Prof. Dr. Tulus, Vor.Dipl.Math., M.Sc., Ph.D explained that the Thematic KKN has two schemes, namely Regular Thematic KKN and Extended Thematic KKN. The difference between the two KKN schemes lies in the duration and number of credit recognition.

Regular Thematic KKN can be recognized with 4 credits while the extended Thematic KKN will be carried out in accordance with 20 credits.

"We adhere to the extended model, which is 4 credits for the first stage, then the 20 credits will be extended to 20 credits temporarily," said Prof. Sincere.

The chairman of USU's LPPM hopes that students are able to participate in and carry out thematic KKN activities in a healthy state. In addition, the results of these activities can be obtained by students and the community.

"I hope these students are able to do it well and carry out activities in good health according to what has been programmed and the results can be obtained for students and the community," the Chair of the USU LPPM mentioned.

The head of the USU 2022 KKNT, Ismayadi, S.Kep., NERS M.Kes explained that there were as many as 10 faculties participating in the Thematic KKN program with details of 820 students participating in the Regular Thematic KKN and 1,113 students participating in the extended KKN.

"Regarding the faculties that take part in the KKNT, the first is Nursing, FKM (Faculty of Public Health), Engineering, Agriculture, Forestry, Cultural Studies, Business Economics, Mathematics and Natural Sciences, so there are 10 faculties that take part in this KKN," said Ismayadi.

Later the division will be carried out in a multidisciplinary manner, which involves each faculty being in one team. In addition, the number of participants in each team is 15 to 17 students. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara