MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
LAM-PTKes Assessment Of Faculty Of Medicine USU Internal Medicine Subspecialist Study Program
LAM-PTKes Assessment of Faculty of Medicine USU Internal Medicine Subspecialist Study Program
Published At
03 December 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
LAM-PTKes Assessment of Faculty of Medicine USU Internal Medicine Subspecialist Study Program
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Tuesday, 03 December 2024

“We thank you for the presence of the assessor team to conduct assessments, provide assessments, and constructive input for the development of the Internal Medicine Subspecialist Study Program,” said Ikhsan Siregar.

USU PR - The Indonesian Institute for Self-Accreditation of Higher Education in Health (LAM-PTKes) conducted an assessment of the Internal Medicine Subspecialist Study Program at the Faculty of Medicine, Universitas Sumatera Utara (FK USU). This activity was attended by a team of assessors, namely Prof. Dr. dr. Haerani Rasyid, M.Ked., Sp.PD-KGH, Sp.GK, from Universitas Mega Buana, and Dr. dr. Abdullah, Sp.PD-KGH, FINASIM, from Universitas Syiah Kuala. It took place at the USU FK Hall on Tuesday (11/26/2024).

 

In his remarks, the Director of the Directorate of Education Development, Ikhsan Siregar, S.T., M.Eng., IPM. expressed his gratitude and welcome to the assessor team for their willingness to attend and conduct an assessment. He hopes that this assessment can provide constructive input for the Faculty of Medicine USU Internal Medicine Subspecialist Study Program.

 

“We thank you for the presence of the assessor team to conduct assessments, provide assessments, and constructive input for the development of the Internal Medicine Subspecialist Study Program,” said Ikhsan Siregar. 

 

Furthermore, Ikhsan Siregar, S.T., M.Eng IPM emphasized the importance of this assessment as a strategic step to ensure that the education program has high standards. With guaranteed standards, the program is expected to be able to produce medical personnel who are competent and ready to face the challenges of an increasingly complex medical world.  He also highlighted the vital role of the Internal Medicine field in dealing with complex and multi-system diseases. This subspecialty education, he continued, plays an important role in producing specialists who are clinically competent and able to think innovatively.

 

“This assessment is a strategic step to ensure high standards in educational operations and professional services, as well as to produce medical personnel who are competent to face the challenges of an increasingly complex medical world,” he added. 

 

As a university committed to producing superior medical personnel, USU continues to strive to adapt its educational programs to the latest developments in medical science and technology. This assessment is an important moment to evaluate the extent to which the study program has met the competency standards of the medical world and how the program can be continuously improved to meet the needs of the community and the professional world.

 

The Dean of FK USU, Prof. Dr. dr. Aldy Safruddin Rambe, Sp.S (K), said that the faculty had prepared all the assessment needs, including supporting documents, over the past few months. He hoped that this assessment would produce the best evaluation and help the study program develop further. Currently, the Internal Medicine Subspecialty program has four specializations, and in the future, it is expected that the number of specializations will increase while maintaining quality.

 

“We have prepared all the necessary documents and hope this assessment will give the best results. Currently, we have four specializations and hope to add new specializations while maintaining quality,” said Prof. Aldy.

 

On the same occasion, internal assessor, Dr. dr. Imelda Rey, M.Ked.(PD), Sp.PD-KGEH, added that they have been preparing for this assessment for a long time to ensure educational standards are met. She explained that they have also committed that graduates are able to meet the needs of the community, especially in Medan. Dr. dr. Imelda is optimistic that with the role of modules, alumni, as well as collaboration between USU, major teaching hospitals, networks, and other departments this study program can achieve the Tri Dharma of Higher Education.

 

“We strive to achieve superior accreditation, even though the program has only been running for three semesters. The role of alumni, major teaching hospitals, networks, and other departments is very important to support the achievement of the Tri Dharma of Higher Education,” said Dr. Imelda. Meanwhile, Prof. Dr. dr. Haerani Rasyid, M.Sc., Sp.PD-KGH, Sp.GK, as one of the external assessors, explained that this assessment includes nine assessment components, ranging from adequacy assessment to field assessment, where the final result of this assessment can be a superior rating to not accredited.

 

“The final results of this assessment can be in the form of superior or unaccredited ratings,” explained Prof. Haerani.

 

This assessment activity is expected to provide concrete guidance for the development of the Faculty of Medicine USU Internal Medicine Subspecialist Study Program, both in curriculum, teaching methods, and supporting facilities. The results of the assessment are expected to encourage Faculty of Medicine USU to become a superior institution in producing professional medical personnel with high integrity.

 

News
SDGs
SDGs 3
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara