MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU MoU With Langkat Government And PT Medan Sugar Industry
USU MoU with Langkat Government and PT Medan Sugar Industry
Published At
20 June 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU MoU with Langkat Government and PT Medan Sugar Industry
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 20 June 2022

Rector of USU Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos, M.Si said that the MoU between USU and the Langkat Regency Government this time was carried out to give each other and share human resources so that USU and the Langkat Regency Government could progress together.

PR USU - The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) officially cooperates with the Langkat Regency Government and PT Medan Sugar Industry. It was stated in the signing of a memorandum of understanding (MoU) which was held in the Senate Room of the USU Central Administration Building on Wednesday (15/06/2022).

USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos, M.Si said that the collaboration between USU and the Langkat Regency Government this time was carried out in the context of giving and sharing human resources so that USU and Langkat Regency Government could progress together.

"USU and the Langkat Regency Government give and share so that they both advance towards progress," said the USU Rector.

The Rector also said that in this case, USU would involve its students to help in terms of human resources to achieve mutual progress.

"Students will be included as one of the quality human resources," he said.

At the same time, Plt. The Regent of Langkat H. Syah Afandi, SH said that with the signing of this MoU, it is hoped that USU can help develop human resources in the field of education and Langkat district government. In the field of education, USU can assist in the development of the existing campus in Langkat.

"Hopefully, with this signing the Langkat government can develop," said Plt. Regent of Langkat.

Especially in the field of education, USU can help develop the campus in Langkat. Because, as we know, USU produces a lot of quality human resources, so it is hoped that it will be able to develop the existing government in Langkat.

"With the signing of this MoU, there are many positive things that can be done together," he said.

Meanwhile, USU is also cooperating with PT Medan Sugar Industry. Vice-Rector III for Research, Community Service, and Collaboration at USU Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan, M.Sc., Apt., said that with this collaboration, USU and human resource service providers could work together in developing human resources. USU could send students or alumni to carry out internships, research, and work. in that industry.

"Hopefully, with this collaboration, USU students and alumni can work in the industrial sector," he said.

President of HR Community Ir. Anggiat Sihombing, MM said that this industry focuses on developing human resources from across sectors, namely academia, industry, services, property, manufacturing, banking, and shipping. The industry mission is to improve the competence and work ethic in Indonesia. It is to become a bridge between the industrial sector of the world of work and institutions.

"With this collaboration, human resources will develop," he said.

HR Community has helped final semester students or alumni to be ready to face the world of work. The activities include seminars, webinars on industry and human resources, talk shows, and others. That way they will be ready to face the real world of work. He hopes the nation's children can become hosts in their own country.

"Hopefully, we can help educational programs in universities so that the nation's children can become hosts in their own country," he said.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Collaboration
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara