MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU-PT. KIM Sign MoU: Improve Education And Research
USU-PT. KIM Sign MoU: Improve Education and Research
Published At
28 November 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU-PT. KIM Sign MoU: Improve Education and Research
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 28 November 2023

I hope that the collaboration with PT Medan Industrial Estate can explore the potential of students to do new things by being involved in conducting a program," hope Prof. Muryanto.

USU PR - Rector of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin S.Sos., M.Si welcomed the opportunity to cooperate with PT Kawasan Industri Medan, which was confirmed through the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU). This cooperation was agreed upon in the Rector's Audience Room, USU Central Administration Bureau Building, on Friday (03/11/2023).

Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin S.Sos., M.Si in his speech expressed his gratitude for the opportunity to sign a cooperation agreement between USU and PT Kawasan Industri Medan, which is a milestone for potential cooperation between the two parties in an effort to support the development of education and research.

"Praise and gratitude to God Almighty. On this happy occasion we can meet and then sign the MoU," said Prof. Muryanto.

Furthermore, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin S.Sos., M.Si explained that the collaboration will reach an agreement related to internship programs, which focuses on the ability to measure changes in improving the quality of students before and after participating in the internship program. So that the experience can provide significant benefits for them.

"After listening to the President Director's explanation, the challenge of the internship program is to translate the student profile to ensure that there is a change in self-improvement," explained Prof. Muryanto.

Finally, the USU Rector hopes that the collaboration with PT Kawasan Industri Medan involving the Faculty of Vocational Studies can explore the potential of students, encouraging them to be actively involved in innovative programs. The main goal is to train behavior patterns and thinking patterns that will improve student discipline and self-development.

"I hope that the collaboration with PT Kawasan Industri Medan can explore the potential of students to do new things by being involved in conducting a program," hope Prof. Muryanto.

President Director of PT Medan Industrial Estate, Daly Mulyana emphasized that one aspect of the collaboration is to encourage economic growth in North Sumatra through efforts to attract investors. This will create opportunities for USU graduates to contribute and develop in the business world. In addition, this cooperation is also a forum for students to engage in work practice in the industrial world.

"This is a very good opportunity, yes. Where we formalize a collaboration so that each of us can focus more. Especially realizing economic growth in North Sumatra," explained Daly.

Daly Mulyana also explained the synergies that have been implemented with State-Owned Enterprises (BUMN). A certified internship program has been initiated for students who are undergoing studies. For 6 months, they will explore and hone their skills at the chosen work practice site. For students who have graduated, an internship program called "Magenta" has also been designed. They will receive a certificate signed by the Minister of SOEs.

"We hope that the next program will be arranged to realize the plans that have been made. We hope that this collaboration will be sustainable as well as with the research institute at USU," said Daly.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Muhammad Andriansyah - Humas

News
Collaboration
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara