MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Hospital Will Continue To Meet The Best Service Standard
USU Hospital Will Continue to Meet the Best Service Standard
Published At
12 April 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Hospital Will Continue to Meet the Best Service Standard
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 12 April 2022

"I appreciate all the efforts, hard work and dedication given by all human resources at USU Hospital, in carrying out the best service to efforts to improve public health and medical treatment needed," said the Chancellor in his remarks.

USU PR - Hospital (RS) Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) will continue to meet the best service standards in carrying out the function of education and health service functions to the community. This was conveyed by the Chancellor of USU, Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., during the celebration of the 6th Anniversary of USU Hospital which was held in the USU Hospital Hall on Wednesday, (3/30/2022).

"I appreciate all the efforts, hard work and dedication given by all human resources at USU Hospital, in carrying out the best service to efforts to improve public health and medical treatment needed," said the Chancellor in his remarks.

According to the Chancellor, this anniversary is a lesson for the entire hospital community at USU Hospital to be enthusiastic and work hard to realize all work programs and improve the quality of hospital services to the public. Especially in completing the facilities and infrastructure needed, both to support learning activities and medical services to the wider community.

“USU Hospital continues to accelerate as a business unit supporting education. This means that in addition to carrying out the educational function, USU Hospital also has an economic impact on the university. Just like the RSGM and the Language Center which will also be used as business units to support education," he said.

Improvements will continue to be carried out gradually. Especially during this pandemic, USU Hospital also plays an important role in encouraging skill improvement and renewal of knowledge for students and teaching staff in the USU Medical Faculty.

"USU is fully aware that the support provided by various parties is very meaningful in improving the quality of medical services and fulfilling the completeness of supporting medical operations," he said.

On this occasion, the DiChancellor of USU Hospital, Dr. dr. Henry Salim Siregar, SpOG., said that USU Hospital was committed to continuing to develop services that were directly proportional to education and adapted to the needs of the Indonesian people, especially the city of Medan. USU Hospital will improve services by opening new services, one of which is chemotherapy.

"Later on, we will also develop operations with small access, so there is no need to open the stomach wide, we budget to buy these tools," he said.

In addition, USU Hospital also supports USU's internationalization efforts by establishing cooperation with foreign hospitals.

"We will provide services with international programs. We will cooperate with foreign hospitals. It will automatically make promotions for USU," he explained.

For information, in its 6th year, USU Hospital has shown its achievements in the role of service, research and education. USU Hospital has served approximately 75,000 patient visits a year, 70 studies per year, and contributes to the education service of 1,000 students per year. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara