MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Ministry Of Health Goes To USU Campus To Recruit Young Talents
Ministry of Health Goes To USU Campus to Recruit Young Talents
Published At
23 July 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
Ministry of Health Goes To USU Campus to Recruit Young Talents
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Tuesday, 23 July 2024

Kemenkes Goes to Campus aims to introduce the Ministry of Health more closely to students, fresh graduates, and university alumni while also opening opportunities for 8,607 young talents to join and collaborate across disciplines within the large family of the Indonesian Ministry of Health. This effort is part of the Ministry of Health's commitment to realizing a healthy society towards Golden Indonesia 2045.

 

USU PR—Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) became the seventh stop for the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Indonesia (Kemenkes RI) in the series of events "Kemenkes Goes to Campus," with a mission titled "Kemenkes Calls for Talents." The event occurred at the USU Student Center on Friday, July 12, 2024.

 

Kemenkes Goes to Campus aims to introduce the Ministry of Health more closely to students, fresh graduates, and university alumni while also opening opportunities for 8,607 young talents to join and collaborate across disciplines within the large family of the Indonesian Ministry of Health. This effort is part of the Ministry of Health's commitment to realizing a healthy society towards Golden Indonesia 2045.

 

The Vice Rector I for Academic Affairs, Student Affairs, and Alumni Relations of USU, Dr. Edy Ikhsan, S.H., M.A., explained that the presence of the Ministry of Health provides socialization regarding the 2024 civil servant candidate recruitment plan and is an excellent way to meet directly with potential job seekers, especially USU alumni, who have been equipped with quality education to compete for opportunities to become civil servants at the Ministry of Health.

 

"This is a very good approach from the Ministry of Health because the education process here is of sufficient quality for them to compete to become civil servants at the Ministry of Health," said Dr. Edy.

 

Dr. Edy Ikhsan, S.H., M.A., hopes that the "Kemenkes Goes to Campus" event at USU can become a bridge for young talents, especially students at USU, to prepare themselves to compete healthily to join and contribute to realizing the vision of Golden Indonesia 2045 through the health sector.

 

"Thus, they can better prepare themselves and increase their chances of getting a job," he continued.

 

L. Rizka Andalucia, Director General of Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices at the Indonesian Ministry of Health, explained that this year's recruitment will open positions for civil servants and P3K (government employees with work agreements), with a total need of about 23,000 personnel throughout Indonesia. However, this year, about 8,000 positions will be opened, with registration starting in August and tests in September. Complete information can be accessed on the Ministry of Health's website.

 

"Students can also intern at the Ministry of Health to see firsthand what the work environment is like at the Ministry of Health," said Rizka.

L. Rizka Andalucia hopes that students and alumni can see long-term career opportunities at the Ministry of Health, contribute to society, and take advantage of this opportunity by being proactive, asking questions, and following the existing selection process, as well as cooperating with career centers at universities to publish information related to career opportunities at the Indonesian Ministry of Health.

 

"The hope is that students will take advantage of this opportunity proactively. Because we also work with career centers at universities to publish information related to career opportunities at the Ministry of Health," Rizka concluded.

News
SDGs
SDGs 3
SDGs 8
SDGs 10
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara