MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Cultural Science
Undergraduate Program In English Literature
Undergraduate Program
English Literature
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Undergraduate Program in English Literature of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is one of the study programs in the Faculty of Cultural Science that has produced outstanding students and made them recognized experts in English literature both domestically and abroad. This study program's main focus is to study the content, artistic character, aesthetics, originality, and beauty of English texts or literary works. Supported by lecturers who are experts in English literature with national teaching certifications and the use of an integrated curriculum, we are committed to providing our students with an interactive education and learning experience. Our goal is to create graduates who are the best in the field of English literature and able to compete at the national and international levels.

Many career opportunities are open to English Literature graduates, such as becoming translators, public relations, tour guides, and even working in international organizations.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

sastrainggris@usu.ac.id

Undergraduate Program in English Literature

Accredited Excellent

No. 2401/SK/BAN-PT/AK-ISK/S/IV/2022

Vision of Undergraduate Program in English Literature

To become a center of excellence in the field of culture through the English language and literature to produce graduates who are competitive regionally, nationally, and internationally by the year 2025.

Mission of Undergraduate Program in English Literature

Excellent Education

To provide services and implement excellent education in the Industrial Revolution 4.0 era in English literature based on linguistics, literature, and culture through blended learning for production purposes in the TALENTA-based language industry.

High-Quality Graduates

To create a conducive academic atmosphere to produce high-quality graduates.

Local Wisdom

To apply interdisciplinary studies in English culture, language, and literature for Indonesia's social, economic, cultural, and local wisdom development.

Research

To conduct research and scientific works for the development of innovative studies based on new paradigms of science and technology with TALENTA-based learning of English culture, language, and literature.

Community Service

To conduct community service in the fields of English literature, language, and culture based on TALENTA to improve the quality of education in Indonesia.

Cooperation

To establish cooperation with various national and international institutions in the development of English culture, language, and literature.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Literature and English Language

Contact Us
Undergraduate Program in English Literature
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Universitas No.19, Padang Bulan, Kec. Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20155

(061) - 8215956

sastrainggris@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara