MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Attending USU FEB Anniversary, Erick Thohir: Global Disruption Is Getting Harder, Campuses Must Transform
Attending USU FEB Anniversary, Erick Thohir: Global Disruption is Getting Harder, Campuses Must Transform
Published At
01 December 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Attending USU FEB Anniversary, Erick Thohir: Global Disruption is Getting Harder, Campuses Must Transform
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 01 December 2021

“This means that economic disruption for digitalization is not something that can be avoided. Are we ready when we are booming, the younger generation, our demographic bonus? Indonesia has a market and natural resources, but our human resources are a challenge," said Erick Thohir. In supporting the improvement of the quality of human resources, campuses must also transform. The Ministry of BUMN (State-Owned Enterprises) itself opens up as many opportunities as possible for students as the younger generation to be able to learn and practice directly in the industrial world.

HUMAS USU - In celebration of the 60th Anniversary, the Faculty of Economics and Business, Universitas Sumatera Utara (FEB USU) presented SOE Minister Erick Thohir in the Economic Outlook 2022 with the theme of “Strengthening Indonesia with Civilized Economics”.

The event was held in the USU FEB Hall in a hybrid manner on Thursday (11/25/2021).

In his presentation, which was guided by the Dean of FEB USU Dr. Fadli, the Minister of SOEs said that currently the world is facing a very severe disruption; not only the disruption of digitalization, but also the disruption of the global market and health.

"And if we look at the global market yesterday with the G20, all countries in the world are pushing for transformation," he said.

He also disagrees if the supply chain uses Indonesia's natural resources for the growth of royalty.

"It's time, we have to be the center of world growth, but our market must be the growth market of our nation," he said.

According to Erick Thohir, technological disruption is also very scary. Top 10 companies in America that used to be based on natural resources, now seven of them are technology-based.

“This means that economic disruption for digitalization is not something that can be avoided. Are we ready when we are booming, the younger generation, our demographic bonus? Indonesia has a market and natural resources, but our human resources are a challenge," he said.

In supporting the improvement of the quality of human resources, campuses must also transform. The Ministry of BUMN itself opens up as many opportunities as possible for students as the younger generation to be able to learn and practice directly in the industrial world.

“How the younger generation works begins with vocational and training. Internships have been carried out. BUMN has many sectors, ranging from banking, logistics, telecommunications, we are very open to doing that," he said.

Erick Thohir also appreciated USU graduates who had many important positions in SOEs. “In this BUMN, there are many embryos from USU. For example, the Deputy Managing Director of BTN, the Managing Director of Mandiri Taspen and the Director of Bank Mandiri Compliance," he mentioned.

On the same occasion, Deputy Governor of North Sumatra, Musa Rajekshah, said that SOEs were asked to grow the economy better by employing more workers from universities, especially USU.

"With this, SOEs can bring good things to the North Sumatra region, grow the economy through SOEs in North Sumatra," the Deputy Governor said.

He also wished FEB USU a happy birthday. "Hopefully we can collaborate with SOEs to grow the North Sumatran economy," he said.

Talking about campus competencies in collaboration with SOEs, USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si said that USU has a research theme that excels internationally. If developed, the theme can support the progress of the nation.

“Students concentrate on research and community service. Students who have embedded practical perspectives will be easier to absorb the world of work, "said the Rector.

The Rector hopes that the synergy between the campus world and SOEs can be carried out massively.

In the event, the Minister of SOEs, Erick Thohir also had the opportunity to thicken the name of the new FEB Hall building. There was also a book giving entitled "60 USU FEB Ideas for Indonesia". The book is a collection of ideas from USU FEB academics and economists to improve the Indonesian economy in 2022. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: M. Andriansyah - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara