MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Excellent Research
Exploring Waste Potential: Revolutionizing Fecal Waste Treatment In Malaysia
Exploring Waste Potential: Revolutionizing Fecal Waste Treatment in Malaysia
Published At
29 May 2024
Published By
Farida Hanum ST., MT.
Exploring Waste Potential: Revolutionizing Fecal Waste Treatment in Malaysia
 

Published by

Farida Hanum ST., MT.

Published at

Wednesday, 29 May 2024

Amidst the hustle and bustle of urban Malaysia lies an often overlooked yet critical challenge for environmental sustainability: fecal waste treatment. This is all the more urgent, with the threat of environmental viability looming over Malaysia. As is well known, the country is struggling with wastewater management. The impact of such inadequate treatment is immense, forcing a shift towards more comprehensive solutions.

This phenomenon concerned a group of researchers comprising Farida Hanum from the Universitas Sumatera Utara, Indonesia; Lee Chang Yuan, Hirotsugu Kamahara, Yoichi Atsuta, Takeshi Yamada, and Hiroyuki Daimon from Toyohashi University of Technology, Japan; and Hamidi Abdul Aziz from Universiti Sains Malaysia. They conducted research to uncover waste management and utilization as well as its obstacles in Malaysia.

Farida explained that Malaysia is facing severe challenges in managing environmental utilization, especially in urban areas. Densely populated settlements and concrete buildings are barriers to management. In addition, conventional obstacles in technical, political, and economic issues and the characteristics of fecal waste in Malaysia also raise additional concerns regarding feasibility.

“Malaysia’s Department of Environment (DOE) categorizes sludge from wastewater treatment plants as scheduled waste, requiring disposal under strict guidelines. Most states’ wastewater management responsibility falls to Indah Water Konsortium (IWK) Sdn Bhd, which oversees an extensive infrastructure network. However, challenges remain,” says Farida.

Traditional disposal methods, such as dumping into landfills and incineration, pose environmental risks and produce ash and sludge. This fact calls for more effective and efficient efforts. Farida said anaerobic digestion is a promising option for addressing the problem. “This process offers comprehensive waste management for the biotransformation of organic matter,” she says.

As the shadow of climate change looms and fossil fuel reserves dwindle, the Malaysian Government supports renewable energy. This circumstance positions anaerobic digestion as a priority program in the green agenda. Anaerobic digestion is emerging as a bright spot, offering a multi-stage process. The process utilizes simultaneous digestion of diverse substrates to enhance methane production. By combining fecal and organic waste, such as food waste, anaerobic digestion increases biogas production and overcomes logistical and economic barriers.

However, Farida explained that its potential is not yet maximized and requires research and development to optimize its efficiency. Technical complexity and high capital development considerations also hamper the process. In addition, skilled professionals are needed to operate and maintain anaerobic digestion plants. However, despite these challenges, there are opportunities for transformation.

The journey towards sustainable septage treatment in Malaysia is challenging but full of opportunities. Anaerobic digestion and innovative digestion practices are vital to unlocking the country’s sewage potential. “Malaysia needs to set its path towards environmental sustainability more firmly through collaboration, research, and development. This will be the foundation of its success. With concerted efforts, the country can pave the way to a greener and cleaner future, one digestion at a time,” Farida concluded.

SDGs 11
SDGs
SDGs 6
Paper Details
Journal
Waste Biorefineries: Future Energy, Green Products and Waste Treatment
Title
Treatment of Sewage Sludge Using Anaerobic Digestion in Malaysia: Current State and Challenges
Authors
Farida Hanum, Lee Chang Yuan, Hirotsugu Kamahara, Hamidi Abdul Aziz, Yoichi Atsuta, Takeshi Yamada, Hiroyuki Daimon
Author Affiliations
Department of Environmental and Life Sciences, Toyohashi University of Technology, Toyohashi, Japan
Department of Chemical Engineering, Universitas Sumatera Utara, Medan, Indonesia
Institute for Global Network Innovation in Technology Education, Toyohashi University of Technology, Toyohashi, Japan
School of Civil Engineering, Universiti Sains Malaysia, Nibong Tebal, Malaysia
DOI
https://doi.org/10.3389/fenrg.2019.00019
Find More Articles
Research Articles
The Impact of Illustrated Modules in Combating Stunting on Nias
Research Articles
Green Innovation Practices in Palm Oil Refineries
Research Articles
Guardians in Silence: A Deep Dive into the Work of UN Interpreters

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara