MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Excellent Research
African Leaf (Vernonia Amygdalina Delile), The Future Of Bre
African Leaf (Vernonia amygdalina Delile), the Future of Bre
Published At
25 April 2024
Published By
Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan S.Si., M.Si., Apt
African Leaf (Vernonia amygdalina Delile), the Future of Bre
 

Published by

Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan S.Si., M.Si., Apt

Published at

Thursday, 25 April 2024

Recent research evaluated the potential of Vernonia amygdalina Delile leaf extract in inhibiting the growth of 4T1 breast cancer cells via the PI3K pathway. The study found that the leaf extract has the ability to affect cancer cell growth by inhibiting the PI3K pathway.

Breast cancer is one of the biggest health threats to women around the world. As the most common type of cancer affecting women, breast cancer affects the sufferer not only physically but also emotionally and socially. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), by 2020, there will be more than 2.3 million new cases of breast cancer worldwide, making it the highest incidence type of cancer globally. In addition, WHO reports that breast cancer is the leading cause of cancer-related death in women worldwide. Therefore, finding an effective treatment with minimal side effects to overcome breast cancer is an important task for researchers around the world.

Breast cancer occurs when breast cells grow uncontrollably and can spread to other parts of the body. Risk factors include reproductive history, such as not having children or having the first pregnancy late in life; exposure to hormones or hormone replacement therapy; lifestyle factors, such as lack of physical activity and poor diet; and exposure to radiation during breast development. Genetic factors such as gene mutations can also increase the risk of breast cancer.

One of the pathways that play an important role in breast cancer development is the phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) pathway. This pathway regulates cell growth and proliferation, and when dysfunction occurs due to mutations or other modifications, it can lead to rapid cancer growth. PI3K inhibitors have been the focus of research due to their potential to inhibit cancer growth. However, to achieve the best results, combination therapy is often required.

This became the reason for Prof. Poppy A.Z Hasibuan, Urip Harahap, Panal Sitorus, and Denny Satria to try to find ingredients that can contribute to overcoming the dangers of breast cancer. The Universitas Sumatera Utara Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Biology experts explored the potential of natural resources spread across Indonesia. According to them, the source of the concoction should be easily obtained and utilized by society.

Their research yielded sweet results by discovering the potential of the Vernonia amygdalina Delile plant. The plant, which originates from West Africa and has been used in traditional medicine for many years, contains various chemicals such as flavonoids, sesquiterpene lactones, fatty acids, and steroidal saponins that have important pharmacological activities, including anti-malarial, anti-inflammatory, anti-tumor, and anti-obesity properties.

"Recent research evaluated the potential of Vernonia amygdalina Delile leaf extract in inhibiting the growth of 4T1 breast cancer cells via the PI3K pathway. The study found that the leaf extract has the ability to affect cancer cell growth by inhibiting the PI3K pathway. This result is very promising, considering that the PI3K pathway is one of the main causes of uncontrolled cancer cell growth," said Prof. Poppy.

Even so, Prof. Poppy explained that the use of Vernonia amygdalina Delile leaf extract as a breast cancer therapy is still in the early stages of research. Nevertheless, preliminary results have shown great potential. The combination of therapy using PI3K inhibitors and leaf extracts could be a breakthrough in breast cancer treatment in the future. Further research is still needed to confirm these preliminary results and understand how this leaf extract works precisely.

They mentioned that the healing process for breast cancer patients requires holistic support and treatment. Apart from undergoing medical treatment, patients also need emotional and social support. Alternative therapies such as Vernonia amygdalina Delile leaf extract, if proven effective, may be an additional option that can improve patients’ quality of life.

"Research on the potential of Vernonia amygdalina Delile leaf extract in inhibiting breast cancer cell growth through the PI3K pathway offers new hope for breast cancer patients. Not only that, but the research conducted also shows the results if Vernonia amygdalina Delile leaf extract has the potential to be used in other cancer therapies," explained Prof. Poppy.

Although further research is still needed to ensure the effectiveness and safety of its use, this leaf extract has great potential to become an important part of breast cancer therapy in the future. Meanwhile, patients should continue to consult with medical personnel before starting any new or alternative treatment, she continued.

Breast cancer is a huge challenge, but with research advances and the development of new therapies, such as those involving Vernonia amygdalina Delile leaf extract, there is hope that people with breast cancer will have more effective treatment options in the future.

SDGs
SDGs 3
Paper Details
Journal
Heliyon
Title
The anticancer activities of Vernonia amygdalina Delile. Leaves on 4T1 breast cancer cells through phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) pathway
Authors
Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan (1), Urip Harahap (1), Panal Sitorus (2), Denny Satria (2)
Author Affiliations
Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Universitas Sumatera Utara, Sumatera Utara, 20155, Indonesia
DOI
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.heliyon.2020.e04449
Find More Articles
Research Articles
The Impact of Illustrated Modules in Combating Stunting on Nias
Research Articles
Green Innovation Practices in Palm Oil Refineries
Research Articles
Guardians in Silence: A Deep Dive into the Work of UN Interpreters

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara