MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU MoU With NT Corporation For Green Economy Development, Blue Economy And Digitalization
USU MoU with NT Corporation for Green Economy Development, Blue Economy and Digitalization
Published At
20 December 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU MoU with NT Corporation for Green Economy Development, Blue Economy and Digitalization
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 20 December 2021

USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si, said, in addition to implementing the Merdeka Learning Campus Merdeka in the form of internship and entrepreneurship programs, this collaboration will also be developed for 3 research focus programs from the Ministry of Education and Technology, namely the green economy, blue economy and digitalization.

USU PR - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with NT Corporation and a public lecture entitled "The Role of Alumni in Supporting the Independent Learning Program at the Independent Campus of the Universitas Sumatera Utara", which was held in a hybrid manner, Tuesday (12/14/2021).

USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si, said, in addition to implementing the Merdeka Learning Campus Merdeka in the form of internship and entrepreneurship programs, this collaboration will also be developed for 3 research focus programs from the Ministry of Education and Technology, namely the green economy, blue economy and digitalization.

"In the ministry, there are three new things that the government will focus on next year. These three conditions are cooperation with the industrial world," said the Rector.

In addition, there is also the Kedaireka program, where USU researchers have research projects that are directed downstream with industrial partners. Dr. Muryanto said this would be one of the programs supported by NT Corporation.

"Next year, USU’s target is to have 15 winners at Kedaireka. The most important thing is when the three focus research of the Ministry of Education, Culture, Research and Technology have been implemented and are financed, they are used by the industry," he said.

In implementing MBKM, the Rector appealed to faculties who would allocate their students to NT Corporation in an internship or entrepreneurship program to immediately enter into a cooperation agreement.

The Rector also said that the President Commissioner of NT Corporation, Dr. Ir Nurdin Tampubolon, M.M is an alumnus of USU who is known to be close and caring for his almamater.

"It is our hope that we invite alumni back to home, so that the role of alumni is useful in developing USU research and research. If alumni need human resources in the form of outstanding students, we will also prepare them," he said.

President Commissioner of NT Corporation Dr. Ir. Nurdin said, as a corporation engaged in business units, from agriculture, energy, media, and property, NT Corporation warmly welcomes the collaboration between Merdeka Campus and USU.

"There are three fields in accordance with the Merdeka Campus, namely internships, entrepreneurship and research and development," said Dr. Ir. Nurdin.

According to him, this collaboration with NT Corporation will provide benefits for the development of existing findings in the corporation.

"Research is important so that we can get innovation by utilizing technology, IoT and so on," he said.

He hopes that this collaboration will help USU and NT Corporation in supporting the nation's progress and education programs. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara