MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Holds PPID Workshop, USU Secretary Asked To Increase Faculty And University Public Relations Collaboration
Holds PPID Workshop, USU Secretary Asked to Increase Faculty and University Public Relations Collaboration
Published At
06 August 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Holds PPID Workshop, USU Secretary Asked to Increase Faculty and University Public Relations Collaboration
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 06 August 2021

MEDAN-USU PR: The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held an online Public Information Disclosure Workshop for Information Management and Documentation Officers (PPID) on Friday (6/8/2021). The activity aims to seek a common perception of all faculties and universities regarding public information services.

Also present as participants were the public relations of faculties and units within USU. University Secretary, Prof. Dr. Muhammad Fidel Ganis Siregar, M Ked (OG), Sp OG (K)-Fer, officially opened the workshop. He said the activity was a continuation of the PPID socialization that had previously been carried out.

“What we are doing today is a continuation of the PPID socialization, which at that time we visited directly all faculties and units at USU. This workshop is to unite our perceptions in public information services,” said Prof. Fidel.

Prof. Fidel explained that the presence of faculty and unit public relations within USU is very important to encourage promotion and public information services. According to him, faculty public relations are in direct contact with activities in each faculty and unit.

“The presence of faculty and unit public relations in the USU environment is very important. Faculty and unit public relations collaborate with public relations at the university to improve public information services. In addition, with the presence of faculty and unit public relations, we can be more detailed and detailed in disseminating activities at USU,” he added.

Amalia Meutia, M Psi, Psychologist, Head of Public Relations, Promotion, and Protocol of USU emphasized the important role of faculty and unit public relations. She likened the relationship between faculty and unit public relations and university public relations to a tree.

“Faculty and unit public relations encourage the formation of USU branding itself. In addition, they also carry out information management and maintenance activities on the website or social media of their respective faculties and units. In addition, socializing policies in their respective faculties and units,” he said.

The presence of faculty and unit public relations opens access to information on agendas and activity plans in faculties and units. In addition, faculty and unit public relations can promote their faculties and units independently.

The Secretary of the University emphasized that in the frame of transformation towards the best, USU should be able to display qualified public information services. As a higher education institution, USU is a public institution that must guarantee public information disclosure.

“Strengthening information disclosure at USU improves our service to the community. In addition, we support the performance of PPID officials to provide good and targeted services regarding public needs for information,” he said.(RR)

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - Public Relations

Interviewee: Prof. Dr. dr. M. Fidel Ganis Siregar, M.Ked.(OG), Sp.OG(K) - Secretary of USU University

Photographer: Public Relations Team - Universitas Sumatera Utara

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara