MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Mahfud MD Invites Ministry Of Education, Culture And Architecture (Mendikbudristek) And Higher Education Leaders To Maintain Conduciveness
Mahfud MD invites ministry of education, culture and architecture (Mendikbudristek) and Higher Education Leaders to maintain conduciveness
Published At
10 August 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Mahfud MD invites ministry of education, culture and architecture (Mendikbudristek) and Higher Education Leaders to maintain conduciveness
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 10 August 2021

USU PUBLIC RELATION-MEDAN: The Coordinating Ministry for Political, Legal, and Security Affairs of the Republic of Indonesia (Kemenkopolhukam) held a meeting with the Ministry of Education, Culture, Research, and Technology (Kemendikbudristek) as well as the Leaders of State and Private Universities. The gathering was held online at 02.00pm, Thursday (8/5/2021) and was attended by the Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si.

During the gathering, the Minister of Politics, Law and Security, Mahfud MD, delivered a discussion on the strategic role of universities in supporting the government in creating political, legal, and security conduciveness during the Covid-19 pandemic.The Minister of Education and Technology, Nadiem Makarim was also present at the meeting.

Mahfud MD emphasized five important points on the occasion.The role of universities is considered very strategic because they have educated resources.In addition, as higher education institutions, universities are an extension of the government's arm in providing understanding to the wider community.

"Utilizing research results for handling the Covid-19 pandemic, both in terms of health and policy.Universities have qualified resources to provide input based on science.So that the government can be helped to make policies,” Mahfud MD said.

Furthermore, the Coordinating Minister for Political, Legal and Security Affairs urged universities to be present as facilitators between the community and the government.The reach of universities that are in direct contact with the community makes universities play an important role.

“Universities can be present to bridge the community and the government in delivering criticism and aspirations.Universities can be an extension of the government's hand in conveying policies, and on the other hand, become a bridge for the community to express their aspirations," he said.

Strengthening in various sectors is no less important as the contribution of universities.Universities with various scientific backgrounds are expected to be able to support the government in carrying out such strengthening.

"Strengthening literacy and education for the community, strengthening solidarity and social capacity, as well as strengthening community economic resilience.All of these things can be realized with contributions from universities, as we know universities consist of various disciplines," he said.

Mahfud MD also emphasized that the government has taken many steps in efforts to overcome the Covid-19 pandemic.He said this step was taken even before the Covid-19 began to spread in Indonesia.

Nadiem Makarim in his speech appealed to university leaders to provide the widest opportunity for students to work.According to him, students must be able to express themselves and universities must accommodate it.

"Freeing students on a positive path.Students must be independent in thought, action, and will.They must be accommodated to develop according to their passion,” Nadiem Makarim said.

His party has provided guidelines for universities in order to maximize the potential of students through the Independent Learning-Independent Campus program.Through this program, higher education leaders can realize the ideals of developing student abilities based on their interests and talents.

Present at the meeting were leaders of public and private universities in Indonesia.After the presentation, continued with discussion and question and answer.The activity closed with a group photo via screenshots.(©ULC)

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - PR

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara