MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Agriculture
Undergraduate Program In Agrotechnology
Undergraduate Program
Agrotechnology
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Undergraduate Program in Agrotechnology is a study program that unites agricultural science with modern technology to increase productivity and efficiency in intensive agricultural systems. Established in 1952, students will study various courses covering critical aspects such as seed technology, soil fertility, agribusiness marketing, integrated pest and disease control, agricultural biotechnology, and post-harvest technology.

With the knowledge gained, graduates of the Undergraduate Program in Agrotechnology are ready to support farmers in managing risks, adopting modern technology, providing practical recommendations related to the selection of crop varieties, optimal use of fertilizers, pesticides, and pest and disease control strategies. This study program offers not only a theoretical foundation, but also relevant practical skills to support sustainable and technologically efficient agriculture. Students who complete this program will earn a Bachelor of Agriculture (S.P.) degree as proof of their expertise and qualifications in agriculture.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

prodiaetfpusu@gmail.com

Undergraduate Program in Agrotechnology

Accredited Very Good

No. 2276/SK/BAN-PT/AK-ISK/S/IV/2022

Vision of Undergraduate Program in Agrotechnology

To become a study program with the strength and ability to compete internationally in 2039 in developing science and technology of plantation crop cultivation and sustainable horticulture.

Mission of Undergraduate Program in Agrotechnology

Education

Organizing education programs in agrotechnology as a platform for graduates to develop BINTANG character and professionalism and develop themselves along with the development of science and technology in agriculture, especially in the field of plantations.

Graduates

Providing graduates who can compete globally, develop themselves according to the needs of the workplace, especially in the field of plantations, and are capable of entrepreneurship.

Research and Community Service

Develop and improve research and community service in TALENTA, especially agroindustry, as well as a source of consultation/information and reference for the industry, especially in plantation, agriculture, and agroindustry.

Partnership

Establishing partnerships nationally and internationally in the field of agriculture.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Soil Science

Agronomy

Plant Pests and Diseases

Plant Breeding

Contact Us
Undergraduate Program in Agrotechnology
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Dr. A. Sofian No. 3, USU Padang Bulan Campus, Medan City, North Sumatra, 20155

(+62) 618213181

prodiaetfpusu@gmail.com

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara