MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Collaborates With Babson College USA
USU Collaborates with Babson College USA
Published At
02 June 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Collaborates with Babson College USA
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 02 June 2023

This collaboration is a vital asset for us to look at internationalization which is being intensively carried out in line with USU's transformation efforts into an entrepreneurial university," said Prof. Mury, who visited Babson College in Massachusetts Friday (26/5/2023) local time.

USU PR - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) officially became one of 36 universities worldwide to collaborate with Babson College, United States of America (USA), a campus-based in Wellesley, Massachusetts, focusing mainly on entrepreneurship education.

Babson College is currently ranked 126th in the United States by The World University Ranking (WUR) in 2022 and, for 30 years, has been the number 1 ranked business school in the United States.

USU Rector Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, SSos, MSi, explained that the collaboration with Babson College, which focuses on entrepreneurship and business, will further enhance USU's international reputation.

"This collaboration is a strong capital for us to look at internationalization which is being intensively carried out in line with USU's transformation efforts into an entrepreneurial university," said Prof. Mury, who visited Babson College in Massachusetts on Friday (26/5/2023) local time.

Prof. Mury hopes that USU's visit to Babson College will also be a valuable experience to make USU an internationally reputable university.

"From Babson College, we can learn how university institutional governance, improving academic quality, entrepreneur-based atmosphere and achieving reputation and support for research and innovation, all of which will certainly make USU even better," he said.

During his visit to Babson College, USU was welcomed by the Dean of Babson Academy and Global Education, Amir Reza, accompanied by the Director of The Babson Collaborative, Jamie Kendrioski, and the Director of University Relations Babson Academy, Jean Ann Schulte.

Dean of Babson Academy and Global Education Amir Reza welcomed the collaboration with USU and hoped the partnership would improve the quality of education in each university.

"With the signing of the collaboration agreement, USU is officially the 36th collaboration partner of Babson College," said Amir Reza.

Activities at Babson College itself included discussions related to developing the entrepreneurial university ecosystem, campus tours, and signing the 'Babson Collaborative Agreement and Babson Pathways Agreement' between Babson College and the Universitas Sumatera Utara

Prof Mury explained that USU has started developing an entrepreneurial university by combining learning, research, and innovation programs to increase the entrepreneurial spirit of lecturers and students and align innovation and industry.

"Discussions with Babson College regarding the development of an entrepreneurial university ecosystem will be our reference in developing an entrepreneurial university at USU, considering that Babson College is indeed a campus that focuses on developing entrepreneurship and business," said the rector.

USU Rector Prof. Muryanto Amin and his entourage to the United States began with a visit to Worcester Polytechnic Institute (WPI), then continued by visiting Babson College. USU collaborates with these two internationally reputable campuses to implement campus internationalization launched by USU in the five years of leadership of Rector Prof. Muryanto Amin.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Muhammad Andriansyah - Humas

News
Collaboration
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara