MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Medicine
Specialist-1 Program In Surgery
Spesialist-1 Program
Surgery
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Specialist Program in Surgery of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Faculty of Medicine (FK), established on March 10, 1980, focuses on the science of organ surgical techniques education. You are expected to become a decision maker who determines, plans, and executes education and research independently to develop science to a higher academic level with students who are competent nationally and internationally.

Therefore, students can become future surgeons who are able to perform medical actions in the form of diagnosis and surgery to support future medical care. Students who have completed this study program will hold the Surgery Specialist (Sp.B.) degree.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

bedah@usu.ac.id

Specialist-1 Program in Surgery

Accredited Excellent

No. 0529/LAM-PTKes/Akr/Spe/VII/2023

Vision of Specialist-1 Program in Surgery

To realize the FK-USU Surgery Study Program as a center of excellence in surgical knowledge at the national level by 2020.

Mission of Specialist-1 Program in Surgery

Optimal Curriculum

To implement the curriculum of the College of Surgery optimally.

Learning and Teaching

To conduct a responsible learning and teaching process in the development of surgical science and the surgical profession.

Attitude Development

To create an academic life that is conducive to the development of personal attitudes in accordance with the Ethics of Science and Ethics of Profession.

Research

To organize research in the field of surgery to develop surgical science.

Community Service

To apply surgical science to solve health problems in society through community service activities.

Cooperation

To establish domestic and foreign cooperation in the field of health with various domestic and foreign educational institutions.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Contact Us
Specialist-1 Program in Surgery
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Dr. Mansyur No. 5, Padang Bulan, Kec. Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20155

(061) - 8361418

bedah@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara