MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
OJK - USU Holds Student Integrity Campaign, Instilling Integrity Values In The Financial Services Sector
OJK - USU Holds Student Integrity Campaign, Instilling Integrity Values in the Financial Services Sector
Published At
18 February 2025
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
OJK - USU Holds Student Integrity Campaign, Instilling Integrity Values in the Financial Services Sector
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 18 February 2025

“The synergy between the academic world and the financial industry is key in forming a generation that has a high awareness of the importance of integrity and public supervision of the operations of the existing financial institutions system,” said Prof. Dr. dr. Muhammad Fidel Ganis Siregar, M.Ked (OG), Sp.O.G, Subsp.F.E.R.

 

Public Relations USU - The Financial Services Authority (OJK) in collaboration with the University of North Sumatra (USU) held a Student Integrity Campaign themed “Together Building the Financial Services Authority and the Financial Services Sector with Integrity”. The activity occurred at the USU Auditorium on Monday (17/2/2025).

 

This Student Integrity Campaign aims to instill and increase awareness of the importance of integrity in the financial services ecosystem, especially among students as the next generation and future leaders.

 

This activity featured two speakers: Sophia Wattimena, S.E., Ak, CA, MBA, QIA, Chairperson of the Audit Board and Member of the Board of Commissioners of the Financial Services Authority, and Khoirul Muttaqien, head of OJK North Sumatra Province. Both presented material about the importance of building integrity in the financial services sector, the role of the OJK in overseeing the financial industry, and awareness of illegal financial activities that can harm the community.

 

USU Secretary, Prof. Dr. dr. Muhammad Fidel Ganis Siregar, M.Ked (OG), Sp.O.G, Subsp.F.E.R in his speech expressed his appreciation for OJK's initiative in organizing this activity. Collaboration between the academic world and the financial industry is a key factor in forming a generation that is highly aware of integrity and the importance of public supervision of the financial system.

“The synergy between the academic world and the financial industry is key in forming a generation that has a high awareness of the importance of integrity and public supervision of the operations of the existing financial institutions system,” said Prof. Dr. dr. Muhammad Fidel Ganis Siregar, M.Ked (OG), Sp.O.G, Subsp.F.E.R.

 

Furthermore, Prof. Dr. Muhammad Fidel Ganis Siregar, M.Ked (OG), Sp.O.G, Subsp.F.E.R emphasized that USU is responsible for producing graduates who are not only academically superior, but also have character and integrity, as the strategic role of students as agents of change in building a better future, and an accountable financial system.

“USU is responsible not only for producing academically competent graduates, but also for strong character and integrity. Students have a strategic role in building the future, and are aware to contribute to realizing good governance and accountable state financial administration, “said Prof. Dr. dr. Muhammad Fidel Ganis Siregar, M.Ked (OG), Sp.O.G, Subsp.F.E.R.

 

Finally, Prof. Dr. dr. Muhammad Fidel Ganis Siregar, M.Ked(OG), Sp.O.G, Subsp.F.E.R hopes that this event can increase student understanding, especially regarding the difference between legal and illegal online loans (pinjol), as well as the risks posed by illegal pinjol, and the importance of being careful in using social media, including online gambling and other risky sites.

“What was explained by the resource person is that pinjol is legal, but it turns out that the illegal ones bury all the benefits that can be used by legal pinjol. Being careful in using social media, can endanger us, students or all Indonesian people, namely not to get involved in online gambling or other sites, “hoped Prof. Dr. dr. Muhammad Fidel Ganis Siregar, M.Ked (OG), Sp.O.G, Subsp.F.E.R.

News
SDGs 4
SDGs
SDGs 8
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara