MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Nursing
Undergraduate Program In Nursing
Undergraduate Program
Undergaduate Program in Nursing
Universitas Sumatera Utara

As a study program that has been established since 1999, the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Undergraduate Program in Nursing is a superior study program that will receive international recognition in 2021 through a holistic care approach based on scientific studies, morals, and conscience at the national level.

The Undergraduate Program in Nursing prepares students to become nurses by studying and carrying out the nursing profession with logical, critical, systematic, and creative thinking. With an outstanding lineup of experienced and competent teaching staff, the Undergraduate Program in Nursing assists prospective nurses with various specializations, such as Community Health Nursing, Anesthesiology, Emergency and Disaster Management, Occupational Health Science, and Pediatrics.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

fkep@usu.ac.id

Undergraduate Program in Nursing

Accredited Excellent

No. 0119/LAM-PTKes/Akr/Sar/II/2022

Vision of Undergraduate Program in Nursing

To become a study program that graduates competent and superior Undergraduate in Nursing with a holistic caring approach based on scientific studies, morals, and conscience at the national level and internationally recognized

Mission of Undergraduate Program in Nursing

Education

Organize quality education to graduate nursing bachelor with holistic caring excellence capable of implementing knowledge based on scientific studies, morals, and conscience.

Research

Develop nursing science and technology to produce research that supports the application of holistic caring.

BINTANG Characters

Producing Ners graduates with academic and professional abilities in managing nursing care and nursing service resources that are holistic caring and the central values of BINTANG (Pious to God Almighty in the Frame of Diversity, Innovative with Integrity, Tough, and Wise).

Local Wisdom

Strengthening the performance of teaching and education personnel so that the achievement of nursing competence with a holistic caring approach can be achieved, being able to work based on scholarship and professional, ethical values, establishing dignified and mutually beneficial cooperation with stakeholders at the global level to develop, empower, and utilize competitive superior fields of local wisdom and arts (ethnic).

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Contact Us
Undergraduate Program in Nursing
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Prof. T. Maas No.3, Kampus, Padang Bulan, Kec. Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20155

(061) - 8213318

fkep@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara