MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
PBL FAHUT, Collaboration To Clean Up Mountain Area Waste
PBL FAHUT, Collaboration to Clean up Mountain Area Waste
Published At
30 January 2024
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
PBL FAHUT, Collaboration to Clean up Mountain Area Waste
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 30 January 2024

The activity is a Project Based Learning (PBL) from the Project Management and Conservation Fundraising Course of the Forestry Study Program, Faculty of Forestry, Universitas Sumatera Utara (Fahutan USU), under the coordinator of lecturer Dr Achmad Siddik Thoha, S.Hut, M.Si. This activity was able to attract support from various parties and the wider community.

Mount Sibayak, which is at an altitude of 2181 meters above sea level, at one time looked different. The situation, which is more often inhabited by silence or only visited by a handful of climbers, looked different in early December 2023. Several climbers who joined in groups climbed to the top of the mountain and did different activities. The area was suddenly crowded with conversations that were accompanied by jokes.

The young people picked up trash and put it in a trash bag, then collected it in the camping ground area. In addition, there were several groups who put up interpretation boards in the form of maps, road signs and texts to remind visitors to bring their trash back after the hike. The garbage that has been collected in the camping ground area of Mount Sibayak is then transported down to Post 1, followed by placing it in the Berastagi City Temporary Disposal Site (TPS), Karo Regency.

The activity is a Project Based Learning (PBL) from the Project Management and Conservation Fundraising Course of the Forestry Study Program, Faculty of Forestry, Universitas Sumatera Utara (Fahutan USU), under the coordination of lecturer Dr Achmad Siddik Thoha, S.Hut, M.Si. This activity was able to attract support from various parties and the wider community. In addition to Fahutan USU students and lecturers, the activity was also supported by the UPTD Bukit Barisan Grand Forest Park (Tahura BB), the North Sumatra Provincial Forestry Service and the community, as well as the SUARA USU student media. This joint action is called AKSIKU (Environmental Cleaning Action and Interpretation Board Installation). This activity is not just a physical activity but also a collaboration that has the aim of keeping the environment clean and increasing awareness of the importance of nature conservation. 

 

This activity, which developed into an idea and materialized into real action, was preceded by several stages. It began with a briefing on conservation projects and fundraising techniques by the lecturer in the classroom. After the theoretical aspect was given, the lecturer gave the students an environmental social project assignment, which emerged from the students' ideas containing the name, location, and place of the activity.

Then, students form a project management that contains the main director, fundraising director and its members, campaign director and its members, media publication director and its members and action director. The directors coordinated each task that was the responsibility of their division. Then students, lecturers and study programs began to roll out activities, especially fundraising and campaigns. The fundraising target of 12 million was exceeded in two months. The 56 students involved succeeded in raising funds and conducting campaigns through social media.

The next activity is to collaborate with various parties in preparing field actions. Students coordinated and collaborated with the management of the Sibayak Mountain area, namely UPTD Tahura BB while requesting administrative support, licensing, and technical direction. Student-based media are also invited to participate in promoting this activity and supporting fundraising targets and conservation action campaigns.

Mountain environmental cleanup became the culminating activity in AKSIKU, which was carried out on December 2, 2023, in the area of the climbing post, hiking trail, camping ground, and mountain peak. Participants were divided into small groups and given the task of cleaning certain areas. Plastic waste, plastic drink bottles, paper, and other materials were collected into one place, then brought down and disposed of at the public dump in front of SMP Negeri 2 Berastagi.

The activity continued with the installation of interpretation boards by installing 6 interpretation boards permanently in strategic locations. The interpretation boards aim to provide educational information to visitors about the importance of not littering in the Mount Sibayak area, trail instructions, camping ground area, and the summit of the mountain. The installation process was carried out jointly with students, managers, and lecturers. 

 

AKSIKU was closed by giving 4 trash cans to the manager as a concrete step in dealing with scattered garbage, which was installed at strategic points of Mount Sibayak. The trash cans are expected to make it easier for visitors to dispose of their garbage, while supporting efforts to maintain environmental cleanliness.

This AKSIKU activity not only has a positive impact on reducing domestic waste from climbing and tourism activities but also increases public awareness of the importance of preserving nature. The interpretation board is an effective educational tool for visitors to this adventure tour. Meanwhile, the addition of garbage cans is expected to reduce the amount of scattered garbage and make it easier for area managers to carry out further management.

The active participation of the local community gives a special touch to this activity. Support and cooperation between students, lecturers, and the community are the main assets that maintain the sustainability of environmental conservation programs. From an idea and motivation in the classroom, it materialized into an impactful environmental social action.

AKSIKU activities are not only physical actions but also create a sustainable trail of education and awareness. Through close collaboration between universities, the media, and the community, it is hoped that this kind of program will continue to become an inspiration for environmental conservation efforts in various regions. (RJ/AST)

Author: Renny Julia - Public Relations Staff

Interviewee: Dr. Achmad Siddik Thoha, S.Hut, M.Si. - USU Lecturer

Photographer: Special - Special 

News
SDGs 15
SDGs
SDGs 13
SDGs 14
Kampus Merdeka
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara