MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Faculty Of Psychology USU Celebrates 24th Anniversary
Faculty of Psychology USU Celebrates 24th Anniversary
Published At
28 November 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Faculty of Psychology USU Celebrates 24th Anniversary
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 28 November 2023

Through this theme, we all hope that the togetherness for 24 years will continue to be closely intertwined to educate and be an example for all our students and academic staff," said the committee chairman

USU PR- The Faculty of Psychology of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) held the 24th Anniversary celebration with the theme "Takkan Hilang Psikologi di Bumi: Bersama Merawat Adab dan Akal Budi" (Psychology Will Never Disappear in the World: Together Nurturing Morals and Intelligence). The event occurred at the Central Garden and Multipurpose Hall of the Faculty of Psychology USU on Friday( 11/17/2023).

In his speech, Fahmi, M.Psi., the event committee chairman, expressed his hope that the togetherness that has existed for 24 years will continue to be closely intertwined to educate and be an example for students and academic staff.

"Through this theme, we all hope that the togetherness for 24 years will continue to be closely intertwined to educate and be an example for all our students and academic staff," he said.

The excitement of the Faculty of Psychology Anniversary took place using Malay culture and customs. Various unique arrangements of the event schedule to commemorate the 24th Anniversary included a Malay-style meal facing each other accompanied by Chicken Pull and Malay Orchestra, as well as the Palang Pintu tradition, a Malay cultural tradition.

Fahmi, M.Psi., Psikolog admitted that at this event, he wanted togetherness until finally, he decided to take Malay culture, where there is a custom of eating face to face and the Palang Pintu tradition.

"We want each other to be close; at the same time, we can eat together, we can do activities together, so we chose the Malay theme," he explained.

The coordinator of the Faculty of Psychology Anniversary event at USU, Dina Nazriani S.Psi., M.A., was also involved in the success of the event that took place and said that all the events of the Faculty of Psychology Anniversary were a pageant of Malay cultural customs involving academic staff and students of the Faculty of Psychology USU who presented very impressive performances.

"So actually all the anniversary events also become pageants because this is an introduction to Malay customs, so starting from eating face to face, then there is a Palang Pintu procession, then the most exciting thing was the chicken tug-of-war, that is part of the cultural pageant.

Then we also asked the academic staff of the Faculty of Psychology to present their best performances, starting from lecturers, educational staff, all generations of S1 students, S2 students, all of them performed here," he said.

Fahmi, M.Psi., Psikolog hopes that next year, the 25th anniversary of the Faculty of Psychology will be even more festive in the Silver Age.

"This time, it's the 24th; next year, it should be more fantastic and more festive because the age of 25 is said to be the silver age, so it should be more fantastic next year," he concluded.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Dies Natalis
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara