MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU FIB With Alumni To Realize Internationalization
USU FIB with Alumni to Realize Internationalization
Published At
13 October 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU FIB with Alumni to Realize Internationalization
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 13 October 2023

In the USU Back Home program, we invite alumni to support the progress of their alma mater. In addition to fostering camaraderie and reminiscing about their college days, the presence of alumni is also expected to contribute to the university's initiatives, particularly in the area of internationalization programs. At the faculty level, there are also alumni gathering activities with the same objectives as USU Back Home," he emphasized

USU PR- The Faculty of Cultural Sciences (FIB) at the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is collaborating with alumni who are part of the Alumni Association (IKA) of FIB USU to realize internationalization programs. This initiative is titled 'Backing Home for Internationalizing Our Campus', it encompasses a range of activities, including alumni gatherings, a charity walk, entertainment performances, a small and medium-sized enterprises (UMKM) bazaar, and door prizes. These events occurred at the FIB USU campus grounds on Sunday (8/10/2023).

The Rector of USU, Prof. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., who was present alongside Vice Rector I, Dr. Edy Ikhsan, MA, appreciates the alumni gathering event initiated by the Faculty of Humanities (FIB) at USU. The Rector emphasized that university programs require collaboration from various parties, particularly from alumni.

"In the USU Back Home program, we invite alumni to support the progress of their alma mater. In addition to fostering camaraderie and reminiscing about their college days, the presence of alumni is also expected to contribute to the university's initiatives, particularly in the area of internationalization programs. At the faculty level, there are also alumni gathering activities with the same objectives as USU Back Home," he emphasized.

Dean of FIB USU, Prof. Dr. T. Thirhaya Zein, M.A., accompanied by Vice Dean I, Prof. Mauly Purba, M.A., Ph.D., Vice Dean II, Dra. Heristina Dewi, M.Pd., and Vice Dean III, Mhd. Pujiono, Ph.D., explained that the alumni gathering program is designed to realize campus internationalization.

"The alumni gathering is a program initiated by FIB USU to make a more significant improvement in the first Key Performance Indicator (KPI I). Additionally, it is expected that alumni can establish a broader network, thereby facilitating quicker employment opportunities for FIB USU graduates," he stated.

"Prof. T. Thirhaya Zein mentioned that so far, FIB USU has already involved alumni through a practitioner-teaching program. Some alumni have participated in teaching within this program. Through alumni gatherings, strong connections and collaborations can is hoped to be fostered, enabling FIB USU to make a maximum contribution to the university's internationalization programs," he stated.

"We extend our gratitude to the alumni who attended, especially to the organizers and committees who have made this alumni gathering event a success. We hope that in the future, activities like this can be further enhanced to ensure our beloved alma mater continues to progress," he expressed.

The event was attended by the officials of the Alumni Association (IKA) FIB USU, including Apriadi Gunawan, Panut Hadisiswoyo, Harun Al-Rasyid, Yulhasni, Robby Hutagalung, Zufri Hidayat, and the Committee Chairman Yusrianto, along with other alumni. The atmosphere became even more festive when the former Governor of North Sumatra, Edy Rahmayadi, graced the occasion and recited a poem.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Alumni & Career
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara