MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
The Faculty Of Forestry Of USU Cooperates With PETAI Foundation In Socializing The Regulation Of The Minister Of Environment And Forestry No.9/2021 Concerning Social Forestry Management
The Faculty of Forestry of USU Cooperates with PETAI Foundation in Socializing the Regulation of the Minister of Environment and Forestry No.9/2021 Concerning Social Forestry Management
Published At
03 August 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
The Faculty of Forestry of USU Cooperates with PETAI Foundation in Socializing the Regulation of the Minister of Environment and Forestry No.9/2021 Concerning Social Forestry Management
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 03 August 2021

USU PUBLIC RELATION-MEDAN : the Harangan Social Forestry Development Institution (LPPS Harangan) which was established by the Faculty of Forestry of USU and Pesona Tropis Alam Indonesia (PETAI) Foundation, in collaboration with the Center for Social Forestry and Environmental Partnership (BPSKL) of Sumatra Region and North Sumatra Provincial Forestry Service (DisHutProvSu), carry out activity of Socialization on the Regulation of the Minister of Environment and Forestry (Permen LHK) No.9/2021 concerning Social Forestry Management.

This socialization activity is carried out on Wednesday, 7/21/2021 through hybrid method, namely actual in-person located at Grand Antares Hotel, Medan and virtually through zoom meeting. There are 30 actual participants and 150 virtual participants, consisting of elements of the North Sumatra Provincial Forestry Service, Forest Management Units (KPH), UPT LHK, City/Regency Environmental Services throughout North Sumatra, Social Forestry Group (KPS), KPS Facilitators, NGOs, universities, environmentalists and others.

The socialization started at 08.00am, initiated by remarks from Dr. Rudi Hartono, S.Hut., M.Si., as USU’s Dean of the Faculty of Forestry. In his remarks the Dean conveys brief profile of LPPS Harangan. It was established on the collaboration of Pesona Tropis Alam Indonesia (PETAI) Foundation and the Faculty of Forestry of the University of North Sumatra (Fahutan USU). The Dean also said that Fahutan USU will always support and actively involves in the implementation and development of social forestry program. Furthermore, right now Fahutan USU is implementing the Independent Learning-Independent Campus (MBKM) program that urgently requires partners in its implementation. Social Forestry Program, especially in KPS, can be a place for students especially from the Faculty of Forestry to carry out this MBKM program.

After the remarks from the Dean of Fahutan USU, the session is continued with remarks and opening of the socialization activity by Dr. Ir. Bambang Supriyanto, M.Sc., as the Director General of PSKL – Ministry of LHK virtually. The Director General of PSKL conveys that general description of Permen LHK No.9/2021 concerning Social Forestry Management, in which according to him, the social forestry has “upgraded.” That program already has a strong legal umbrella, namely Law No. 11 of 2020 concerning Job Creation and the Government Regulation No.23 of 2021 concerning the Implementation of Forestry. Therefore, currently the social forestry has become one of the development priorities in Indonesia, as well as a forest management system in Indonesia in supporting forest sustainability and public welfare.

There are two speakers in the socialization and discussion sessions, they are Ir. Herianto, M.Si., as the Head of Forestry Service of North Sumatra Province and the Head of BPSKL of Sumatra Region, Apri Dwi Sumarah, S.Hut., M.Sc., MSE., and Dr. Odin Affandi, S.Hut., MP, Lecturer of the Faculty of Forestry of USU as the moderator whom also the Head of LPPS Harangan

The first speaker, Ir. Herianto, M.Si., conveys in his presentation that a permit of social forestry management in North Sumatra Province has been issued for an area of 68,409.51Ha which is given to 133 KPS with details: Community Forestry (HKm) 39,294.29Ha (74 KPS), Community Plantation Forest (HTR): 16,595.61 Ha (15 KPS); Village Forest (HD): 4,196 Ha (13 KPS); forestry (KK): 5,929.78 Ha (30 KPS); and Customary Forest (HA): 2,393.83 Ha (1 KPS).

This achievement is still considered as low (only 12.42%) compares to the target to be achieved that is around 550,887 Ha. In order to accelerate the target achievement, the Regional Government (Pemda) of North Sumatra Province has made Social Forestry program as one of policy priorities in forestry development.

To support these priorities, Pemda of North Sumatra Province has established strategies, policy direction, and programs for the period of 2019-2023 to support the Social Forestry program. One of the policies that have been made at the moment is the establishment of North Sumatra Province Working Group for the Acceleration of Social Forestry (Pokja PPS) which later will be functioned in assisting KPS, both during pre-permit and post-permit period for the social forestry management. In the future, a Regional Regulation concerning the Facility of Social Forestry in North Sumatra Province is also be drafted.

Meanwhile, the second speaker, Apri Dwi Sumarah, S.Hut., M.Sc., MSE, conveys about the details of Permen LHK No. 9 of 2021 concerning Social Forestry Management. Based on Permen LHK No. 9 of 2021, Social Forestry is a sustainable forest management system carried out within state forest area or Forest of Rights/Customary Forest by local people or customary/traditional community as the main actors to improve their welfare, balancing the environment and cultural socio dynamics in a form of Village Forest, Community Forest, Community Plantation Forest, Customary and Partnership Forest. This ministerial regulation regulates the Approval of Social Forestry Management, Social Forestry Management Activities, Social Forestry in Peat Ecosystem, Community Garden Improvement Term, guidance, supervision and control, acceleration of Social Forestry Management and administrative sanctions. On the sidelines of his presentation, the Head of BPSKL of Sumatra Region sincerely hopes that the stakeholders are able to play roles in the development of social forestry program so that provides positive impacts on the forest and the community.

Led by the Head of LPPS Harangan the discussion session went very dynamic with many questions from both virtual and actual participants. The number of questions raised related with new things in Permen LHK No.9 of 2021 when it is being compared to the previous Permen LHK, namely LHK No.83 concerning Social Forestry.(©ULC)

Author: Dr. Agus Purwoko, S.Hut, M.Si - Forestry

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Tim Yayasan PETAI - Forestry

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara