MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Medicine
Master's Program In Clinical Medicine
Master Program
Clinical Medicine
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Master's Program in Clinical Medicine of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is an advanced stage of the clinical medicine specialization, designed to provide medical professionals with a more in-depth learning experience. The program's primary focus is to prepare graduates with the knowledge and skills necessary to provide high-quality healthcare by utilizing the latest scientific information and technology.

The study program is committed to producing graduates capable of conducting in-depth analysis, researching, developing, and disseminating knowledge in the clinical medicine field. Graduates will play an active role in improving healthcare standards in the community and contribute to the latest discoveries and developments in medical science. Graduates of this study program will be awarded the Master of Clinical Medicine (M.Ked.Klin.) degree.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

kedklinik@usu.ac.id

Master's Program in Clinical Medicine

Accredited Excellent

No. 0270/LAM-PTKes/Akr/Mag/IV/2022

Vision of Master's Program in Clinical Medicine

To make the Master's Program in Clinical Medicine of the USU Faculty of Medicine a center of excellence in clinical knowledge in Indonesia in 2024.

Mission of Master's Program in Clinical Medicine

Education

To organize quality education in clinical medicine studies related to evidence-based medicine and the latest medical technology.

Research

To organize quality research in clinical medicine and be able to answer medical problems generally found in society.

Community Service

To organize community service that is beneficial and directly impacts society.

Cooperation

To establish a network of cooperation with various domestic and foreign institutions in education, research, and community service.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Pediatrics

Internal Medicine

Surgery

Obstetrics and Gynecology

Ophthalmology

Pulmonology and Respiratory Medicine

Psychiatry

Dermatology and Venereology

Otorhinolaryngology, Head and Neck

Clinical Pathology

Anatomic Pathology

Neurology

Anesthesiology and Intensive Therapy

Forensic Medicine

Cardiovascular Medicine

Neurosurgery

Orthopedics and Traumatology

Radiology

Contact Us
Master's Program in Clinical Medicine
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Dr. Mansyur No. 5, Padang Bulan, Kec. Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20155

(061) - 8211045

kedklinik@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara