MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Fattahiya, USU Student Who Won The Most Popular Participant At The KMBI Award
Fattahiya, USU Student who won the Most Popular Participant at the KMBI Award
Published At
26 August 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Fattahiya, USU Student who won the Most Popular Participant at the KMBI Award
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 26 August 2021

USU PUBLIC RELATIONS – MEDAN: The Universitas Sumatera Utara has made another achievement through one of its students in the Undergraduate of Agribusiness Study Prgoram, Faculty of Agriculture, Fattahiya Fadhillah Siregar. Fattahiya managed to get the Merdeka Bank Iindonesia Campus (KMBI) Award in the nomination of the most popular participants and was included in the 10 best participants.

This achievement began with Fattahiya’s participation in an intership at Bank Indonesia for 4 months in the even semester of 2020/2021, under the guidance of a lecturer at the Faculty of Agriculture, Dr. Rulianda P. Wibowo.

Dr. Rulianda explained that the KMBI internship is one of a series of collaborative activities between Bank Indonesia and all universities in Indonesia, in supporting the activities of the Independent Campus-Independent Learning. “Before participating in KMBI activities, students are first selected at the university level by previously receiving proposals from study programs. After being selected at the university level, prospective KMBI participants are re-selected at the national level. USU succeeded in sending 3 students to participate in KMBI ativities on behalf of Fattahiya Fadhillah, Muhammad Bangun Siregar and Attania R. Sembiring.” Dr. Ruli said.

In an effort to produce superior human resources, especially undergraduate college graduates who are adaptive to the world of work, the government through the Ministry of Education and Culture has released an independent campus program aimed at accelerating the improvement of the quality of human resources. This is what Bank Indonesia has done through the Merdeka Campus Bank Indonesia program, as a form of support for government programs in improving the quality of human resources through improving the quality of education. The Independent Bank Indonesia Campus Program (KMBI) is categorized as an internship, although the program is based on three main activities, namely learning, project/research work, and working experience.

“Learning activities are carried out independently (self-learning) by apprentices. Learning includes central banking materials and other materials that can be taken according to the interests and concentrations desired by the apprentices. Project/research activities are held so that interns are able to apply their knowledte, both from learning activities on campus and self-learning at LMS-Matrix in a project/research organized by the work unit for placement of apprentices. Working experience activities are obtained by interns so that they have real work experience and learn about the culture and work rhythms within Bank Indonesia,” Dr. Rulianda said.

Not only that, he continued, interns are also facilitated with other interesting activities that can add insight and hone the soft skills of participants while in the KMBI progran. To train the activess of interns in team work, participants are given the opportunity to be able to create webinars/sharing sessions where the interns are the main committee.

In addition, in several other non-formal activities, such as engagement and enrichment sessions, participants were given the opportunity to become a host or discussion guides at the session. Through these activities, the organizers of the KMBI assess the activeness of the apprentices, outside of the formal activities included in learning, projects/research, and working experiences. To appreciate participants who have the advantage of being more active than other participants, the organizers of the KMBI give an award known as the “KMBI AWARD”. (*/(C)ULC)

Author: Renny Julia Harahap - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Universitas Sumatera Utara - -

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara