MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Law
Faculty of Law
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

fh@usu.ac.id

The Faculty of Law (FH) of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is one of the best and most favored law faculties in Indonesia, ranking 11th as the Best Faculty of Law according to THE Asia University Rankings 2022. Established in 1996, this faculty is the second faculty at USU and is accredited Very Good (A), never failing to produce competent graduates scattered throughout Indonesia. Filled with highly experienced and dedicated lecturers, the USU Faculty of Law's mission is to produce highly qualified and ethically motivated legal professionals who are knowledgeable, innovative, and responsive to legal needs. The USU Faculty of Law also provides a wide range of study programs covering business law, criminal law, civil law, international law, and others, with high-quality education, personalized attention, and interactive learning experiences. We invite students and prospective students to join us on this journey of developing and enhancing intellectual aspects and legal awareness in Indonesian society.

Visit Faculty Page

Law Studies

Undergraduate Program

Law Studies

Master Program

Master's Program in Notarial Law

Master Program

Law Studies

Doctoral Program

Vision of Faculty of Law

To become a leading Faculty of Law that produces quality, moral, and professional graduates and has competitive advantages, both at national and international levels.

Mission of Faculty of Law

Education

To organize competency-based legal education and research that emphasizes problem solving in accordance with the trends in national and international legal developments trends.

Research

To improve the quality of the learning and teaching process through building facilities, infrastructure, educational facilities, career development, as well as improving the welfare of lecturers and staff.

Service

To involve lecturers and students in scientific activities related to problem solving and legal development at the national and international levels in accordance with their competencies. To maximize the role of lecturers and students in community service activities.

Contact Us
Faculty of Law
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Universitas No.4 Kampus USU Medan 20155, Sumatera Utara

(061) - 8213571

fh@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara