MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Engineering
Doctoral Program In Industrial Engineering Science
Doctoral Program
Industrial Engineering Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Doctoral Program in Industrial Engineering Science is an advanced study program from the Master's Program in Industrial Engineering that offers advanced deepening in the field of industrial engineering. Through a comprehensive curriculum, students will develop a deep understanding of theory and practice in operations management, systems analysis, production engineering, and industrial business strategy.

In addition, the program emphasizes innovative and applicable research in addressing modern industrial challenges. Students are directed to conduct research that is of high quality and has a real impact in improving industrial efficiency, productivity, and sustainability. With a focus on developing sustainable and industry-oriented solutions, graduates of this program are expected to become leaders in their fields and make meaningful contributions in facing complex industrial challenges in the future.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

dti@usu.ac.id

Doctoral Program in Industrial Engineering Science

Accredited Baik Sekali

0148/SK/LAM Teknik/AD/IV/2024

Vision of Doctoral Program in Industrial Engineering Science

To become a leading Doctoral Program in Industrial Engineering with high competence in integrated systems engineering, both nationally and globally.

Mission of Doctoral Program in Industrial Engineering Science

Education

To provide a Doctoral Education in Industrial Engineering that fosters character and professionalism in human resources, preparing them to excel nationally and globally.

Graduates

To produce professional graduates in the field of industrial engineering with an educational orientation that emphasizes the aspects of searching for new knowledge, innovation, and solving actual problems based on scientific competence and relevance, as well as behaving with ethical scholarship.

Research and Community Service

To implement, develop, and improve research, research culture, and community service programs in order to develop superior knowledge and contribute to better sustainable industrial development.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Quality and Reliability Engineering

Supply Chain Management

Product Design and Development

Ergonomics and Human Factors

Contact Us
Doctoral Program in Industrial Engineering Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Almamater, USU Padang Bulan Campus, Medan Baru, Medan City, North Sumatra, 20155

(+62) - 618219005

dti@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara