MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Website Usage Rules
Website Usage Rules
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Usage Rules

Usage Rules

Departments, faculties and work units are responsible for creating and updating their pages. Always update the information on related websites.
Departments, faculties and work units must provide an English version of the website.
Department, faculty and work unit websites must have an RSS feed. If the website uses USU's WordPress functionality, an RSS feed will be generated automatically. If the department/faculty/work unit website is made by yourself, make sure it has RSS feed capabilities.
Be aware of all copyright issues. Make sure you have permission to use the material you post from the relevant author or photographer. Make sure materials are labeled correctly. Also review the legal notice on the copyright/property page and provide a link to this page if needed for your site.
Each department, faculty or work unit must have at least one person who is fully responsible for the contents of the related website (website administrator).
The website administrator is responsible for ensuring that authors of university materials keep the materials up-to-date and do not post inappropriate materials on the educational institution's website. Authors should always assume that all content on websites hosted on university servers can be public (free-for-all access), even if they are not actually intended for the public. It is important to keep the material up-to-date and available. Changes to this page cannot be made without notification from the entity responsible for content management. For more information, contact the USU Help Desk/ Call Center.
Website operators are responsible for ensuring that their websites are accessible to users with disabilities who can use assistive technology (e.g., screen readers or screen magnifiers) to read the website. Information about university studies and programs should be accessible to everyone. In addition, elements of lecture programs and materials offered online must be easily accessible.
If the information displayed is related to time, the effective date must be clearly stated (e.g., "tuition fees 2022-2023").

The University of North Sumatra is dedicated to managing an accessible network, which will provide the university community with full access to university information, lecture programs, and activities offered through the network. The University is also committed to implementing minimum website accessibility standards and encouraging online publishers to comply with accessibility standards. If you use technology and supporting materials on our website that prevent access to information, please contact USU's Help Desk / Call Center.

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara