MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Engineering
Undergraduate Program In Civil Engineering
Undergraduate Program
Civil Engineering
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Undergraduate Program in Civil Engineering has been established since January 18, 1958 and is one of the oldest study programs on campus. The program explores principles related to the planning, design, construction, and maintenance of physical infrastructure, such as roads, bridges, buildings, dams, sanitation systems, and other structures that form the foundation of modern society. Students of this program will gain an in-depth understanding of mechanics, construction materials, structural engineering, environmental engineering, and project management.

This program has a vision to be the best in the field of civil engineering and globally competitive based on local excellence. We invite you to join the Universitas Sumatera Utara Undergraduate Program in Civil Engineering and embark on an in-depth journey in understanding modern infrastructure and sustainable architectural innovation. Graduates of this program will hold a Bachelor of Engineering (S.T.) degree, ready to play a role in advancing the field of civil engineering in the future.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

tekniksipil@usu.ac.id

Undergraduate Program in Civil Engineering

Accredited Baik Sekali

1718/SK/BAN-PT/Ak-PPJ/S/III/2022

Vision of Undergraduate Program in Civil Engineering

To become an Undergraduate Program in Civil Engineering with academic excellence and prepare graduates who are competitive, act professionally, and are able to adapt to changes in science and technology that are globally competitive.

Mission of Undergraduate Program in Civil Engineering

BINTANG

Organizing civil engineering education to prepare graduates who are dignified, innovative with integrity, resilient and wise, and able to compete internationally.

Industry 4.0

Developing innovative and dynamic research that can answer challenges in the era of the industrial revolution 4.0.

Expertise Services

Providing expert services to the community that are beneficial for improving life.

Digital-based

Organizing and developing digital-based education.

Partnership

Establish and develop partnerships with other institutions both nationally and internationally in the fields of academics, research, and community service.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Structural Engineering

Construction Engineering Management

Geotechnical Engineering

Water Resources Engineering

Machine Transportation

Contact Us
Undergraduate Program in Civil Engineering
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Almamater, Padang Bulan, Kec. Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20155

(+62) - 618201826

tekniksipil@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara