MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
IHWG-UI & USU-SPIRIT Project Socialized Healthy Hydration
IHWG-UI & USU-SPIRIT Project Socialized Healthy Hydration
Published At
07 November 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
IHWG-UI & USU-SPIRIT Project Socialized Healthy Hydration
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 07 November 2023

The Indonesian Hydration Working Group (IHWG) has been working for 11 years to socialize the importance of drinking water. It is hoped that this activity will continue in the future with the National Healthy Hydration Movement which is the peak of Indonesia's hydration activities. Full support for this activity comes from the local government and various parties, especially PT. Danone Aqua.

Hydration is a water consumption program for various age groups from early childhood to old age. It is recommended to consume 2 liters or 8 glasses of drinking water per day to maintain body health and optimize physical abilities. This was stated by the main speaker, the Dean of the Faculty of Medicine, Universitas Indonesia, namely Prof. Dr. dr. Ari Fahrial Syam, SpPD-KGEH, MMB, who attended the community service event to socialize Hydranation: National Healthy Hydration Movement on 26-28 October 2023, at Mikie Holiday Hall, Berastagi, North Sumatra. This activity was also attended by the Dean of the Faculty of Medicine, Universitas Sumatera Utara, Prof. Dr. dr. Aldy Safruddin Rambe, SpS(K) with the aim of strengthening collaboration between the two faculties.

 

In addition, long-term dehydration can increase the risk of non-communicable diseases and infections in the future. These non-communicable diseases are the main focus in various international project activities and health organizations, especially the SPIRIT activities of the Erasmus Plus Funding Project which emphasizes increasing physical activity and proper nutritional intake in preventing non-communicable diseases, one of which is metabolic syndrome.

 

The 'National Healthy Hydration Movement' is currently being launched, this movement was initiated by the Indonesian Hydration Working Group (IHWG) in collaboration with the Universitas Indonesia (UI) and invited the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) to socialize "Hydranation" to all corners of Indonesia. This movement is also supported by other health organizations such as the Indonesian Doctors Association (IDI), the Indonesian Association of Clinical Nutrition Doctors (PDGKI), and the Indonesian Medical Nutrition Doctors Association (PDGMI).

The Indonesian Hydration Working Group (IHWG) has been working for 11 years to socialize the importance of drinking water. It is hoped that this activity will continue in the future with the National Healthy Hydration Movement which is the peak of Indonesia's hydration activities. Full support for this activity comes from the local government and various parties, especially PT. Danone Aqua.

 

Water as an essential macronutrient has a function in various important processes in the human body. Namely as a form of cells and body fluids, as a regulator of body temperature, as a solvent, as a lubricant and cushion, as a transportation medium, and as an elimination of metabolic waste. The body cannot meet all its needs for water, therefore humans need to fulfill their need for water with adequate water intake or adequate hydration. This movement needs to be done at all ages to get optimal benefits, called Hydranation ("Hydranation")

 

Some people still consume drinking water in quantities that are less than their needs. As many as 22% of Indonesian children aged 4-9 years do not drink enough water. The need for children aged 2-12 years is around 5-6 glasses per day (1 glass is equivalent to 250 mL of water), while for adult men 8 glasses per day, adult women 7 glasses per day, and pregnant women 8-10 gels per day, breastfeeding mothers 10-12 glasses per day, for the elderly 6 glasses per day. Assessment of adequacy can be seen from the color of the urine produced by the body. The darker the color of the urine, the higher the level of dehydration.

 

The team from the Universitas Indonesia who was also present to jointly carry out the socialization of the National Healthy Hydration Movement was Dr. dr. Diana Sunardi, M. Gizi, SpGK (K), dr. Nurul Ratna Mutu Manikam, M. Gizi, SpGK (K), Dr. dr. Dian Novita Chandra, M. Gizi, and dr. Wiji Lestari, M. Gizi, SpGK (K), as well as the team from the Department and Clinical Nutrition Study Program, Faculty of Medicine, Universitas Indonesia.

 

The discussion about long-term hydration being very important to prevent non-communicable diseases and infections in the future was also discussed thoroughly by speakers from the Faculty of Medicine, Universitas Sumatera Utara. Prof. Dr. dr Dina Keumala Sari, M. Gizi, SpGK (K), said where eating patterns, proper diet, and adequate hydration can prevent non-communicable diseases, one of which is metabolic syndrome. Non-communicable diseases are diseases that do not undergo a process of being transferred from other people, but are the most common cause of death in society, such as obesity, hypertension or high blood pressure, heart disease, stroke, diabetes mellitus or diabetes, and other blood vessel disorders.

 

For this reason, it is important to emphasize the importance of healthy hydration to all Indonesian people in general and North Sumatra in particular, to always drink water so that diseases are not contagious and infections can be prevented. Let's make "Hydranation: National Healthy Hydration Movement" a success at all levels of society throughout Indonesia. Also participating in the team from the Universitas Sumatera Utara was Dr. rer. Medic., dr. M. Ichwan, M.Sc, SpKKLP, Subsp FOMC, Dr. dr. Yetty Machrina, M. Kes, AIFO-K, dr. Hilna Khairunnisa Shabayar, M. Gizi, SpGK, and dr. Princess Amelia Mahya. This event was attended by around 100 participants from local residents and the local government.

Author: Renny Julia - Staf Humas

Interviewee: Prof Dr dr Dina Keumala Sari, M Gizi, Sp GK (K) - Dosen

Photographer: Istimewa - Istimewa

News
Erasmus
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara