MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Welcoming the Internationals
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Build Your Future With Us

Welcome to Universitas Sumatera Utara, where diversity meets unity. We are thrilled to welcome international students worldwide to experience our dynamic academic and cultural environment. At USU, you will find a warm and supportive community that will help you adjust to a new way of life, both academically and socially. Our campus is home to students from various backgrounds, creating a vibrant and multicultural community. We hope that your experience at USU will not only enrich your academic journey but also offer you a unique opportunity to broaden your horizons and explore a new culture. We are excited to welcome you to our campus and look forward to supporting your success.

Vocational Program
Undergraduate Program
Applied Undergraduate Program
Profession Program
Master Program
Doctoral Program
Specialist Program

About USU

Universitas Sumatera Utara (abbreviated as USU) is a state university in Medan, North Sumatra, Indonesia. USU was initially established with the name Yayasan Universitet Sumatera Utara on June 4, 1952. Our first faculty was the Faculty of Medicine, established on August 20, 1952. President Soekarno inaugurated USU as the 7th State University in Indonesia on November 20, 1957. In 2003, USU changed its university status to status as a Legal Entity State University (PTN-BH) and became the 5th PTN-BH university in Indonesia.

Universitas Sumatera Utara Accredited with Excellence

BAN-PT 105/SK/BAN-PT/Ak.Ppj/PT/II/2023

1201-1400

QS World University Ranking

329

QS Asia University Ranking

3

QS Stars

1491

THE World University Ranking

1491

Webometrics World University Ranking

42.687

Students

952

Lecturers

17

Faculty/School

259

Study Programs

655

International Assoc.

Welcome On Board!

We are excited that you are considering studying with us. Our university is committed to providing international students a world-class education in a vibrant and multicultural environment. Here, you will find all the information you need to apply and join our diverse community of scholars. We are proud of our academic programs and faculties, and we look forward to helping you achieve your academic and career goals. Start your journey with us today!

Find Out More about Admissions
1
2
3
4

International Affairs Office

The International Affairs Office (IAO) of Universitas Sumatera Utara is a division under the Vice Rector for Planning and Cooperation, which provides expert support and guidance for the formal international relations of Universitas Sumatera Utara. The office contributes to the internationalization of USU through leadership and administrative support. IAO facilitates international collaboration and coordinates activities designed to bring USU closer to the shared vision of USU being internationally recognized for its research, education, and community service.

Visit the International Affairs Office Website

Student Counseling Service

We believe that good mental health is essential for academic and personal success. Counseling can help students overcome stress, anxiety, depression, and other issues that can impact their well-being. In an increasingly competitive and demanding environment, students need to prioritize their mental health to reach their full potential. Our counseling service is offered privately and confidentially to ensure students feel comfortable discussing their issues and receiving the support they need.

Find out more about Counseling
40+
Student Activity Units

The USU campus offers various platforms for students to engage in activities and learn more outside the classroom. Through student activity units, Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) facilitates students’ hobbies and interests in various fields. Find more opportunities to meet new friends, share new experiences, develop soft skills, interests and skills, as well as build a broad network.

USU student activity units also provide opportunities for students to participate in various events and competitions while expanding their personal network. Participating in student activity units can help students showcase their potential and talents in their respective fields and prepare for future career paths.

See More Student Activity Units
Sports
Martial Arts
Spiritual
Organizational
Science and Technology
Debate and Languages
Music and Literature
Press and Journalism
General Facilities
Health Facilities
Sport Facilities
Disability Facilities

Campus Facilities

Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) provides various facilities that can be used, especially by students and the academic community, to support learning activities and as a means to support various non-academic activities.

Find Out More about Facilities

Medan City Tourism

Medan is one of the cities on the island of Sumatra which has many beautiful and stunning tourist attractions. Its beauty represents the exotic land of Sumatra. The city of Medan, known as Lake Toba, offers unique tourist attractions that are different from the others. The identity of the city of Medan is reflected in its natural and cultural wealth. Explore the city of Medan and discover popular attractions around it.

Other Tourisms
Aksara Park
Katamso Land
Tjong Yong Hian Garden
Indonesian Plantation Museum
Avros Park

Campus Visits

Campus visits are intended for prospective students of Universitas Sumatera Utara. You will have the opportunity to see firsthand the atmosphere of our campus, including the facilities, students, and campus life.

Start Visiting

Frequently Asked Questions

What facilities can be seen during the campus visit?
In the USU campus area, there are many public facilities that can be seen, including sports facilities and academic facilities.
Are there any guidelines or rules to be followed during the campus visit?
It is recommended to always ask the academic community and maintain proper behavior within the campus area.
Can I meet with lecturers or students at a specific faculty during the campus visit?
During the campus visit, you can meet with specific lecturers or students outside class hours.
What is the registration procedure for new students at Universitas Sumatera Utara?
Registration information can be accessed on https://penerimaan.usu.ac.id.

Access and Transportation

Students from outside Medan can take a flight to Kualanamu Airport and continue their journey to the USU campus by taxi or bus. Students can also take a train and continue their journey using public transportation.

Students can use buses to reach USU by going through the nearest bus terminal and getting off at Amplas Terminal. After that, students can continue their journey to the USU campus using public transportation, which takes approximately 30 minutes.

Students can reach the location of Universitas Sumatera Utara by taking a flight. After arriving at Kualanamu Airport, the journey can be continued by taking a taxi or bus, which takes approximately 60 minutes.

Students can use a ship and dock at Belawan Port. Then, the journey can be continued by public transportation or bus to the location of USU, which takes approximately 120 minutes.

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara