MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Kampus Merdeka
Wirausaha Merdeka
Wirausaha Merdeka
Kampus Merdeka

Benefits Wirausaha Merdeka

For Students

Provides practical experience for students in entrepreneurial activities through the process of equipping them with an entrepreneurial mindset and competencies, business concept development and creation as well as entrepreneurial practice and development.
Have competence in analyzing businesses and creating business opportunities.
Enhance work capabilities to improve the quality and capacity of university graduates.
Opportunities to learn outside the campus to further develop knowledge in the field of entrepreneurship.
Recognition of credits (SKS) equivalent to 20 SKS for the series of activities conducted.

For Universities

Higher education institutions can develop innovative and creative entrepreneurship development models that serve as references for higher education institutions.
The developed entrepreneurship education models in higher education institutions provide inspiration for best practices, enabling these models to be implemented in other higher education institutions as well.
Improvement in the quality of graduates in terms of their readiness for employment or entrepreneurship upon completing their studies at the higher education institution.
Enhancement of the quality of students through support and appreciation for them to be able to learn and excel in activities outside the campus.
Enhancement of students' competencies and work capabilities, particularly in the development of student entrepreneurship.
The home institution gains insights and practical experience in implementing the best teaching and mentoring methods for its students.

Requirements Wirausaha Merdeka

For Universities

Possess expertise in the development of student entrepreneurship and demonstrate a track record of achievements in student entrepreneurship.
Be willing to develop entrepreneurship programs for students and submit proposals following the designated template provided by the program team.
Be prepared to manage both internal and external students, with a minimum of 400 participating students.
Have implemented the MBKM program and prepared a program learning achievement report as a basis for recommending the conversion of credits equivalent to 20 credits.

For Students

Active students in the following educational levels:
Diploma (D-2, D-3, D-4) and Undergraduate (S-1) - at least in the 3rd semester.
Master's (S-2) and Doctoral (S-3) - no semester restriction (without credit conversion).
Not currently working on a thesis or final project during the program.
Not taking any courses at their home institution while participating in the program.
Obtain a recommendation letter from the Head of the Study Program and the leader in academics of the institution.
Willing to participate in the program full-time (one semester), as indicated by a student declaration letter.

News

Other News
arrow_forward
USU Welcomes 160 Merdeka Student Exchanges
20 June 2024
1,900 KKNT 2022 Students Released by The Rector of USU
20 June 2024
USU Strengthens MBKM Program with PTPN IV and Bank Indonesia
20 June 2024

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara