MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Dentistry
Specialist Program In Prosthodontics
Spesialist-1 Program
Specialist Program in Prosthodontics
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Specialist Program in Prosthodontics at the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is a program that studies methods of rehabilitation and maintenance of oral cavity function, tooth function, and tooth layout, along with oral and maxillofacial soft tissues. This program is responsible for teaching dental science specialists who study problems related to the rehabilitation of oral function by replacing missing or damaged teeth and or dental structures and oral tissues with artificial devices.

The vision of this study program is "To become a center for dental education for specialist programs in Prosthodontics with superior clinical and laboratory skills and entrepreneurship that can compete in the global world order in 2025". Graduates of the USU Specialist Program in Prosthodontics are expected to be able to create breakthroughs and positive contributions in the field of dental health services, especially in the practice of prosthodontics. Students who have completed this study program will hold the title Prosthodontia Specialist (Sp.Pros.).

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

ppdgsprostodonsiafkgusu@gmail.com

Specialist Program in Prosthodontics

Accredited Excellent

0037/LAM-PTKes/Akr/Spe/I/2023

Vision of Specialist Program in Prosthodontics

Becoming the Center for Prosthodontic Specialist Dentistry Education with excellent Clinical, Laboratory skills, and Entrepreneurship that can compete in the global world order in 2025.

Mission of Specialist Program in Prosthodontics

Education

Carrying out education based on the development of science, particularly in Prosthodontics, to produce quality graduates.

Research

Organizing a series of studies in prosthodontics to support students' competence and produce beneficial findings in the development of prosthodontics.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Head and Neck Anatomy

Biomedical Science

Biomaterial Science

Contact Us
Specialist Program in Prosthodontics
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jalan Alumni No. 2 Kampus USU, Medan, Sumatera Utara 20155

061- 8216131 / 061-8201773

ppdgsprostodonsiafkgusu@gmail.com

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara