MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Scimago's Rank Up, USU Wins In Several Fields Of Science
Scimago's Rank Up, USU Wins in Several Fields of Science
Published At
25 April 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Scimago's Rank Up, USU Wins in Several Fields of Science
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 25 April 2022

This achievement cannot be separated from USU's accomplishments in being at the top in several fields of science. At the Indonesian level, USU is ranked first in the Economic Sector. Meanwhile, it was ranked eighth in the Law Sector, and the Engineering Division was in the tenth position. The accumulation of these ratings contributed to USU's overall ranking.

USU PR: The Scimago Institutions Rankings (SIR) have announced the ranking of higher education institutions for 2022. An encouraging result was achieved by the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) by moving up one place to position 6 on the list of the best universities in Indonesia after last year being in position 7. Internationally, USU improved its ranking from the previous 708 positions to 620 or an increase of 88 ranks.

This achievement cannot be separated from USU's accomplishments in being at the top in several fields of science. At the Indonesian level, USU is ranked first in the Economic Sector. Meanwhile, it was ranked eighth in the Law Sector, and the Engineering Division was in the tenth position. The accumulation of these ratings contributed to USU's overall ranking.

The Dean of the USU Faculty of Economics and Business, Dr. Fadly, SE, M.Si, expressed his appreciation and gratitude for the achievements of the faculty he leads. According to him, this achievement could not be separated from the hard work and solidarity of the entire academic community under the USU Faculty of Economics and Business.

“Alhamdulillah, this result is certainly a form of faculty support to achieve USU's ranking target in the World University Rankings. This can certainly be achieved thanks to the support of all parties, especially the full support of visionary University Leaders and agile policies and work programs in the VUCA (Volatility, Uncertainty, Compexity, and Ambiguity) era, "he said.

He added that if this result became a momentum for FEB to continue to do their best. Instead, he considered this achievement a challenge for FEB to remain consistent and continue improving quality in various sectors, especially in research and teaching.

"The ranking results achieved are a challenge for the FEB community in maintaining consistency and improving the quality of research. In the future, FEB will continue to fully support University Performance Indicators, especially in research, by requiring 1 lecturer to produce 1 research output. Furthermore, in general, the challenge in the economic field, which is the social and humanities family, is that it is still difficult to get indexed publishers, especially Scopus, compared to the fields of science and health," said Dr Fadly.

With this achievement, USU has become a university that can be considered by prospective students who will major in Economics and business and law. This is because USU is superior to other universities in Indonesia. In addition, USU also continues to transform into the best by improving the quality of academic services and infrastructure.

There are 3 groups of indicators used in the ranking, namely 50% research performance, 30% innovation, and 20% social impact as measured by visibility on the web with 5-year period data. Furthermore, the research indicator group consists of 13% impact normalization indicators, 8% leadership excellence, output, 5% scientific leadership, 3% non-own journals, 3% own journals, 2% excellence, 2% international collaboration, 2% open access , and 2% scientific talent base.

Meanwhile, the innovation indicator group consists of 10% innovative knowledge, 10% patents, and 10% technology impact. The social impact indicator group consists of 10% altmetric indicators, 5% inbound links, and 5% web size. (RR)

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - Humas

Interviewee: - - _

Photographer: Humas - Humas

News
Research
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara