MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Faculty Of Medicine Conducts AHS With Six Provinces In Sumatra Island
USU Faculty of Medicine Conducts AHS with Six Provinces in Sumatra Island
Published At
05 May 2025
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
USU Faculty of Medicine Conducts AHS with Six Provinces in Sumatra Island
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Monday, 05 May 2025

"The target is to improve health services, especially in areas lacking human resources, and to solve other health problems. Activities like this should continue to be followed up to benefit the wider community. Talking about AHS certainly talks about how to integrate a health system between education, research, and health services, through cooperation in improving regional-based health services."

MEDAN-Public Relations: The Faculty of Medicine (FK) of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) implemented the Academic Health System (AHS) or coordination of the Academic Health System with six other provinces in Sumatra, coinciding with the commemoration of National Education Day, Friday (01/05/2025). The six provinces are North Sumatra, Aceh, West Sumatra, Riau, Riau Islands, and Jambi. FK USU as the coordinator of AHS region one is tasked with coordinating education and activities related to efforts to improve health services in the six provinces.

This was conveyed by the Dean of FK USU Prof. Dr. dr. Aldy Sjafruddin Rambe, Sp. S (K) and Vice Dean I Dr. dr. Delyuzar, M. Ked (PA), Sp. PA, SubSp. URL (K) in a series of Hardiknas 2025 activities in collaboration with the Ministry of Research and Technology and AHS held online and offline in the FK USU meeting room. Previously, in this activity, the 2025 Impactful Academic Health System Expo was officially opened by the Rector of Universitas Gadjah Mada (UGM) Prof.dr. OVA Emilia, M. Med., Sp. OG (K)., Ph.D..

 

“We involve the Faculty of Medicine, Teaching Hospitals, and Regional General Hospitals (RSUD) in each province, in realizing AHS to improve health services,” he said.

 

FK USU has an active role in helping services in the regions, including sending final-stage resident doctors to Riau, Riau Islands and other areas, which aims to help improve health services, especially in the field of specialization where there are no specialists in the area. In addition, there are 14 hospitals that FK USU also supports to help improve health services. FK USU and the North Sumatra Provincial Government also collaborate to build the provision of human resources (HR), namely specialist doctors in West Nias, North Nias, and South Nias.

 

Vice Dean I of FK USU, Dr. Delyuzar, M.Ked(PA), Sp.PA(K) also hopes that all of this will improve the quality of education.

 

"The target is to improve health services, especially we help areas lacking human resources and can solve other health problems. Activities like this should continue to be followed up to benefit the wider community. Talking about AHS certainly talks about how to integrate a health system between education, research, and health services, through cooperation in improving regional-based health services," he said.

 

Academic Health System (AHS) or Academic Health System coordination is an organization consisting of a Teaching Hospital, Faculty of Medicine, one or several other Health Professional Education Institutions, research institutions, educational vehicles, and institutions that plan and utilize health workers. AHS is part of an integrated health care system that is committed to improving the quality of public health services through the education of health workers and superior research in supporting quality health services, as well as accelerating the production of doctors and specialists.

 

AHS functions to provide health services according to health problems referred from primary care facilities and highly specialized medical services, provide rare medical services not provided in other health service facilities, educate health professionals to meet current and future health service needs, and carry out translational research to develop science and technology that can improve the quality of human life.

 

The system, which is adapted from medical education in America, has several components, including clinical governance standards and referral systems, educational governance standards and continuing education, research governance standards (networking, capacity), institutional performance evaluation and sustainable medical staff, financial management, and community outreach.

 

Dr Delyuzar further expects good collaboration between the Ministry of Health, Ministry of Education and Culture, and Ministry of Home Affairs so that each program can be harmonized and implemented in real work, such as increasing the quota of doctors, increasing the quota of specialist doctors, establishing specialist study programs, guardianship of FK, and guardianship of RSP. These programs help fill gaps in the need for health workers, especially doctors and specialists in remote areas, and develop Regional Hospitals as educational facilities.

 

The first material in the activity was delivered by Prof.Dr.Ir. Sri Suning Kusumawardani, MT, Oj, Director of Human Resources of the Directorate General of Higher Education, Ministry of Education and Technology, who brought material entitled How the Academic Health System Impacts. This was followed by the Chairperson of the AHS National Working Group, Prof. Dr. Ratna Sitompul, Sp. M (K), who spoke about the Development of the Academy Health System, as well as presentations from each AHS Regional Coordinator (SKA).

 

Region 1 PIC, Dr. dr. Delyuzar, M. Ked (PA), Sp. PA, SubSp U. R. L(K) explained the existence of Region 1, which was born with six provinces. He explained that several medical faculties in Region 1 developed health services with a limited number of specialists and placed independent senior residents. These include FK USU, which sends senior residents to the North Sumatra region, and hospitals in Aceh, Riau, and Riau Islands Provinces.

 

In addition to collaborating with the Department of Health, Hospitals, and the Faculty of Medicine, FK USU also oversees new FKs such as FK Helvetia, FK Imelda, and the preparation of FK UNIMED. To improve public health programs, FK USU conducts joint research involving stakeholders in TB prevention in Indonesia, especially in region 1.

 

“The Faculty of Medicine (FK) USU is committed to supporting the program of North Sumatra Governor Bobby Nasution, marked by collaborating with the Provsu Health Office and assisting Health Human Resources in several districts in Nias, including supporting hospitals to be developed in North Nias with affirmation of specialist education from Nias, as well as the placement of independent senior resident doctors who anticipate a shortage of specialists,” concluded Delyuzar. (RJ/BSB)

News
SDGs
SDGs 3
SDGs 10
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara