MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Is Committed To Clean Up Drug Trafficking On Campus
USU is Committed to Clean up Drug Trafficking on Campus
Published At
13 October 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU is Committed to Clean up Drug Trafficking on Campus
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 13 October 2021

Deputy Rector I Dr. Edy Ikhsan emphasized that USU would not intervene in the ongoing legal process. This is USU's commitment to eradicate narcotics abuse and illicit trafficking within USU.

USU PR - The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is committed to eradicating drug trafficking in the campus environment which is already very troubling. This form of commitment was shown by USU in coordination with the National Narcotics Agency (BNN) of North Sumatra Province to take action against individuals who use and distribute drugs at USU.

Vice Rector I Dr. Edy Ikhsan, accompanied by Vice Rector V Luhut Sihombing, USU Head of Public Relations, Promotion, and Protoler Amelia Meutia MPsi, Head of the Asset and Business Bureau Suhardi together with the Head of BNN North Sumatra Province Brigadier General Pol Drs. Toga Habinsaran Panjaitan, Tuesday (10/11/2021) held a press conference related to drug raids at USU.

USU's Deputy Rector I, Dr. Edy Ikhsan, SH, MA, said the raid on narcotics abuse and illicit trafficking in USU was part of a series of face-to-face learning preparations that would be held in the near future.

“We are preparing face-to-face learning, which will be held at the earliest next semester. One of them is that we want to eradicate the abuse and illicit trafficking of narcotics, which are indicated to be in the USU environment," Edy Ikhsan said.

He explained that this was the result of coordination between the two parties. Previously, USU sent a letter to the BNN of North Sumatra Province to conduct a sweep regarding the information circulating.

"The results of the coordination were then followed up by the BNN who took action against drug users and dealers, as a result, dozens of students were netted and there were several dealers who were outside USU," he said.

Edy Ikhsan explained that USU has rules governing sanctions given to students who face legal problems. He said that students who were sentenced to a minimum of two years would be immediately dropped out (DO).

"According to the rector's regulations, students who will be sentenced to a minimum of two years will be fired immediately," he said.

He also emphasized that USU would not intervene in the ongoing legal process. This is USU's commitment to eradicate narcotics abuse and illicit trafficking within USU. Vice Rector V, Ir Luhut Sihombing, MP explained that USU would evaluate access to entry at USU. Even though USU implements learning from home, some academic activities are still being carried out at USU.

“It is true that USU does learning from home, but we cannot limit creativity and academic activities in several study programs. For example, ethnomusicology is carrying out activities in its studio,” said Luhut.

From the results of the raid, 47 (forty seven) people were netted. After a urine test, there were 31 (thirty one) people positive for using narcotics while 16 (sixteen) others were negative. "Of the 31 (thirty-one) people who tested positive for narcotics after being recorded, 20 (twenty) of them are USU students whom 14 (fourteen) are still studying and 6 (six) are USU alumni. The other 11 (eleven) people are public," said Brigadier General Toga.

It is also known that the results of a search of the place and clothing were found to be 508.6 grams of marijuana. 265 grams belonged to one of the arrested suspects with the initials JHS, who is alumni of the USU Faculty of Cultural Sciences, some of which were wrapped in small plastic bags ready for distribution. The results of the interrogation of the suspect JHS that he obtained the narcotics from a woman named DM. Based on the results of the interrogation, an investigation was carried out.

“On October 10, 2021 at 09.30 WIB, DM together with one male friend named FAY was arrested on Jl. Cemara Ujung No. 80 Ex. Jati District. Medan City Municipality of Medan," said Brigadier General Toga. (©ULC)

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - PR

News
Management
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara