MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Dissemination Of PKAK FH USU, Gen Z North Sumatra Critical In Democracy
Dissemination of PKAK FH USU, Gen Z North Sumatra Critical in Democracy
Published At
13 February 2024
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Dissemination of PKAK FH USU, Gen Z North Sumatra Critical in Democracy
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 13 February 2024

“As new voters, students must have updated knowledge about the technical implementation of the 2024 Election so that they can participate in monitoring,” Prof. Mury said.

USU PR - The Center for Anti-Corruption Studies of the Faculty of Law, Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), in collaboration with the Partnership in holding a Dissemination of Research Results, entitled “Perceptions of Gen Z Beginner Voters in North Sumatra Towards Voting Rights and Money Politics for the 2024 Political Year.” It took place at Grandhika Hotel Medan on Monday (12/02/2024).

The activity involved a research team consisting of 4 people and responders consisting of 3 people. It was attended by a hybrid of 13 universities in North Sumatra, with 5 universities attending in person: USU, Universitas Negeri Medan, Universitas Islam Negeri Sumatera Utara, Universitas Muhammadiyah Sumatera Utara, and Universitas Medan Area.

The dissemination of research results carried out by the research team chaired by Dr. Detania Sukarja, SH, LLM, aims to provide an in-depth understanding of the importance of building personal awareness in each person to keep the General Election running peacefully and not be interpreted as violating the law, including money politics.

USU Rector Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si highlighted that the perception of generation Z beginner voters in North Sumatra towards voting rights and money politics significantly shapes their political attitudes and participation. In the face of the 2024 elections, novice voters will show a high level of concern for democracy and good governance.

“As new voters, students must have updated knowledge about the technical implementation of the 2024 Election so that they can participate in monitoring,” said Prof. Muryanto.

In line with that, Dr. Detania Sukarja, SH, LLM. stated that the results of the study showed that the potential for money politics practices in North Sumatra Province is still very large and has the potential to occur throughout Indonesia. It is hoped that this data can contribute to realizing a healthy and clean democratic process, as well as reducing the practice of money politics that can undermine integrity and transparency in politics.

“Young people, namely Gen Z, as novice voters, must critically dig up information about existing candidates, and there must be research. So that later their choice is the best choice,” said Dr. Detania.Lastly, Dr. Detania Sukarja, SH, LLM, advised the young generation to be positive Agents of Change for the nation. However, research results show that the younger generation, especially Gen Z, tends to be pragmatic in dealing with money politics. Although they are first-time voters, they are expected to have a more critical attitude and integrity in responding to the practice of money politics.

“Of course, abstention is not the answer. This research proves that Gen Z's main source of information media is social media. This can be the first step to finding the track record of the candidates,” explained Dr. Detania.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Public Relations

Interviewee: Prof. Muryanto Amin - USU Rector

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Public Relations

 

News
Research
SDGs 11
SDGs
SDGs 16
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara