MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU-TU Berlin Holds International Seminar
USU-TU Berlin Holds International Seminar
Published At
01 March 2024
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU-TU Berlin Holds International Seminar
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 01 March 2024

“This seminar provides valuable insights and inspiration for all who attend, motivating us to move forward, fulfill our responsibilities, and continue the environmental legacy to be conducive and sustainable for future generations,” said the USU Rector in his remarks.

USU PR—Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), together with the Technical University of Berlin (TU-Berlin), held an International Seminar with the theme “Water and Environmental Management in Southeast-Asia Challenges of Sustainable Development Goals.” The seminar was held in the Academic Senate Conference Room, USU Central Administration Bureau Building, on Tuesday (02/27/2024).

The purpose of organizing this seminar and collaboration is to increase our awareness of using water on Earth. In addition, it is a means of information about clean water management for the community so that it remains sustainable in the future and the intensity so that wastewater can be managed properly. If water is not used as well as possible, it will be a catastrophe that threatens human life in the future.

USU Rector, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin S.Sos., M.Si., in his speech, expressed the importance of working together with cross-sectoral, cross-country, and even cross-community to understand the challenges in maintaining a sustainable ecosystem.

He added that this seminar is the right forum to discuss and find the best solution to overcome these problems by working together and presenting innovative, integrated, and sustainable solutions.

“This seminar provides valuable insights and inspiration for all who attend, motivating us to move forward, fulfill our responsibilities, and continue the environmental legacy to be conducive and sustainable for future generations,” said the USU Rector in his remarks.

Prof. Sven-Uwe Geißen, the representative of TU Berlin, mentioned that there are two things that will be achieved through this cooperation, namely the existence of a bond between Indonesian and German scientists. In addition, there is an exchange of knowledge with Germany, which can teach the challenges of maintaining water quality. Indonesia can learn about environmental protection and clean water management, especially around the sea, considering many human activities around it.

Prof. Dr. Ing. Ir. Johannes Tarigan, chairman of the Committee, said that this seminar was initiated several years ago to collaborate, but it could only be realized this year after the COVID-19 period had passed.

He added, “This seminar was also implemented in Lake Toba to conduct research on the quality of water there.”

The Chairperson of the Committee hopes that USU can find and formulate the latest research useful for protecting the environment in collaboration with TU-Berlin.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Public RelationsInterviewee: Prof. Muryanto Amin - USU RectorPhotographer: Amri Simatupang - Public Relations 

News
SDGs
SDGs 6
SDGs 17
Education
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara