MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Rector Hold Title Of Datuk Wiyarta Cendikia Raja
USU Rector Hold Title of Datuk Wiyarta Cendikia Raja
Published At
17 October 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Rector Hold Title of Datuk Wiyarta Cendikia Raja
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 17 October 2022

Honored, the Rector explained that the sultanate's assessment of the awarding of the title was based on the contribution that had been made in the world of education, especially the Universitas Sumatera Utara which had made progress in Tanah Deli.

PR USU - Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si officially holds the title of Datuk Wiyarta Cendikia Raja which was assigned directly by Seripaduka Sultan Deli XIV Tuanku Sultan Mahmud Lamantjiji Perkasa Alam.

The awarding of the Deli Sultanate of Honorary Degree Darjah itself took place at Balairung Seri Maimoon Palace on Sunday (10/02/2022).

The awarding of the Darjah Honorary Degree was also the closing of a series of events for the Day of Keputraan which fell on August 29. Previously it was known that the commemoration of the Day of Keputraan in the tradition of the Deli Sultanate was a commemoration of the birthday of the reigning sultan, which in this case was the 14th Deli Sultan Mahmud Arya Lamantjiji.

The Rector of USU is one of the academic figures who was awarded the title by the Sultan of Deli this year. The title Datuk Wiyarta Cendikia Raja means someone who is elder, respected, wise, and knowledgeable, so chosen by the sultan of the kingdom to be a friend of the king.

“Datuk Wiyarta Cendikia is the king. It means people who are elder and respected, wise, and knowledgeable. So they were chosen by the royal sultan and chosen to be the king's friend, "the rector explained.

Honored, the Rector explained that the sultanate's assessment of the awarding of the title was based on the contribution that had been made in the world of education, especially the Universitas Sumatera Utara which had made progress in Tanah Deli.

"I feel appreciated because they think this assessment is based on our contribution to the world of education," Muryanto Amin said.

In line with the internationalization program, the Rector of USU, after holding an honorary degree, has the motivation to advance Tanah Deli by educating students from North Sumatra to have a global outlook without diminishing local cultural values. This is necessary because according to the Rector, Tanah Deli needs thinkers from the younger generation to be able to accelerate progress in Tanah Deli.

"USU is currently conducting internationalization, so the program we are doing is educating children from North Sumatra to have a global view but not to reduce their local culture, so that's the hallmark of USU educating students to have broad minds but not be uprooted," he said.

As additional information, in addition to the USU Rector, there are two USU professors who were also given honorary degrees, namely Prof. Dr. Hasim Purba SH., M. Hum with the title Datuk Arif Iswara Mustasyar and Prof. drg. Ismet Danial Nasution Ph.D., Sp.Pros(K) with the title Datuk Cendikia Darmalaksana Raja.

The awarding of the honorary degree is not done every year, usually the title is given to relatives of the sultan. This year, some of the award recipients are academic figures. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Management
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara