MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU-PTPN Build Medical Plant Conservation
USU-PTPN Build Medical Plant Conservation
Published At
01 November 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU-PTPN Build Medical Plant Conservation
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 01 November 2022

"The Universitas Sumatera Utara as an educational institution that fully supports the implementation of the Tri Dharma of higher education and the desire to be a solution to various problems that exist in the community, plans to create a Medical Plant Conservation," said the Rector of USU.

USU PR - Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) together with PTP Nusantara Holding, PPKS, PT. Socfindo, BKS-PPS, and MUSPERIN will build a Medical Plant Conservation. The activity was marked by the laying of the first stone or Ground Breaking Medical Plant Conservation which was carried out at USU Tri Dharma Street on Sunday (10/09/2022).

This conservation development is a form of the USU commitment to introduce the world community that Indonesia, especially North Sumatra, has many medicinal plants.

The USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si in his speech said that traditional medicine in this case using herbal plants is a form of strength of Eastern society.

"Traditional medicine based on herbs or those derived from plants is one of the strengths of Eastern society that has existed for a long time and is rooted in life and is recognized by the world community," Muryanto Amin said.

Indonesia has many types of herbal plants, most of which have not been maximally researched on these plants so that there has been no breakthrough in medical innovation supported by herbal plants.

Referring to the case, the Rector said that USU as an institution that fully supports the implementation of Tri Dharma is here to be a solution to this phenomenon, one of which is by building conservation of herbal plants.

"The Universitas Sumatera Utara as an educational institution that fully supports the implementation of the Tri Dharma of higher education and the desire to be a solution to various problems that exist in the community, plans to create a Medical Plant Conservation," he said.

The Rector hopes that Medical Plant Conservation can become an experimental garden that is useful for the development/expansion of medicinal plants, as well as a laboratory for related faculties in conducting research and producing important innovations in the fields of medicine and pharmacy.

Head of the Center for Palm Oil Research (KPPS) Dr. H.M. Edwin S. Lubis development activities will be maximized so that construction is attempted to be completed before 6 months.

"We are trying to do it before 6 months, meaning that starting tomorrow the activities will be maximized again so that the hopes of the Rector of Medical Plant Conservation will be completed as soon as possible," explained the Head of PPKS.

Later at Medical Plant Conservation, students will be reintroduced how the local wisdom of the previous community healed diseases using herbal plants.

"Definitely as the Rector said earlier, millennial students will be re-acquainted with how local wisdom is compared to previous people using herbal plants," Edwin said.

The head of KPPS hopes that the construction of Medical Plant Conservation will receive prayers and support because the conservation of herbal plants is very important, especially since it was built at USU so that students not only learn but also know their environment. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Collaboration
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara