MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Faculty Of Pharmacy Inaugurates 90 New Pharmacists
USU Faculty of Pharmacy Inaugurates 90 New Pharmacists
Published At
16 October 2024
Published By
Renny Julia Harahap
USU Faculty of Pharmacy Inaugurates 90 New Pharmacists
 

Published by

Renny Julia Harahap

Published at

Wednesday, 16 October 2024

“Pharmacists are not only providers of medicine, but also providers of accurate information about medicine to the public. In this era of rapidly growing information, pharmacists must be able to provide appropriate education to the public regarding the correct use of drugs,” said Prof. Poppy.

USU PR - The Faculty of Pharmacy, Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) once again held a ceremony to take the oath and promise of pharmacists for 90 new graduates in the odd semester of the 2024/2025 academic year. It took place solemnly in the Hall of the Faculty of Pharmacy on Saturday (09/21/2024).

 

With the addition of 90 new pharmacists, the total number of pharmacist graduates of the USU Faculty of Pharmacy since 2006 has reached a significant number, namely 3,256 people. Overall, the Universitas Sumatera Utara has graduated 4,430 pharmacists.

 

In her speech, Vice Rector III of USU, Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan, S.Si., M.Si., Apt., representing USU Rector Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., said that the pharmacist profession has a great responsibility in ensuring the safety and effectiveness of drug use. New pharmacists are always encouraged to prioritize the interests of patients and carry out the profession in accordance with the code of ethics and applicable regulations.

 

This inauguration ceremony also creates momentum for new pharmacists to commit to improving the quality of health services in Indonesia. They are expected to actively contribute to the development of pharmaceutical science and overcome various increasingly complex health challenges. The USU Faculty of Pharmacy continues to strive to improve the quality of education by achieving excellent accreditation for the pharmacy profession study program and the undergraduate program in pharmacy. This achievement shows the commitment of the USU Faculty of Pharmacy to producing quality graduates who are ready to face the challenges of the world of work.

 

Prof Poppy also revealed that all new pharmacists who were inaugurated had successfully passed the Indonesian Pharmacist Professional Program Student Competency Test (UKMPPAI). This exam is a mandatory requirement that must be met by every prospective pharmacist before they can take their oath.

 

“Pharmacists are not only drug dispensers but also providers of accurate information about drugs to the public. In this era of rapidly growing information, pharmacists must be able to provide appropriate education to the public regarding the correct use of drugs,” said Prof. Poppy.

 

Finally, on behalf of the university, he hopes that the new pharmacists can work well and make a positive contribution to society. In addition, the university also invites all related parties, such as the government, pharmaceutical industry, and professional organizations, to jointly support the development of the pharmaceutical profession in Indonesia.

News
SDGs
SDGs 3
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara