MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Rector: Institutional Arrangement In Principle Efficiency And Productivity
USU Rector: Institutional Arrangement in Principle Efficiency and Productivity
Published At
08 July 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Rector: Institutional Arrangement in Principle Efficiency and Productivity
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 08 July 2021

MEDAN - USU PUBLIC RELATIONS: In order to implement adaptive organizational governance, many things must be re-designed, considering that many things in the institutional system are inefficient, overlapping, and requesting a large enough budget allocation for unproductive things.

This was emphasized by USU Rector Dr. Muryanto Amin in a coordination meeting and faculty rearrangement, which took place online on Wednesday (7/7/2021). According to him, the arrangement of departments, study programs, and many of their applications are not in accordance with the existing organizational and governance (ortala) arrangements.

“The context of efficiency must be seen, as well as the management of human resources. There are faculties that have departments and study programs. The nomenclature that must be adhered to is the fulfillment of the rights and functions of the study program. Inefficiency must be suppressed, considering that there are departments whose budgets are very burdensome, but their productivity is not supportive,” said the Rector.

In addition, continued Dr. Muryanto, laboratories also need to be reorganized. Given that laboratories provide an important portion/role in the productivity of scientific work at the Universitas Sumatera Utara. He promised to find a way out of the additional budget for laboratory improvements at USU.

“We should not only concentrate on tool procurement. However, the most important thing is to improve SOPs, maintenance, productivity, and equipment use. Anyway, the laboratory will be taken seriously this year. As long as the SOP and its use are not well organized, it is useless. Laboratory productivity must be able to support the rector's performance,” he said.

He emphasized that institutional arrangement is principally about efficiency and productivity improvement. The organization of the institution must also be done as soon as possible, which is expected to be done this year. The Rector also reminded not to make regulations that ensnare themselves.

“Do not let us be confined by the rules we make ourselves. This meeting is intended to ask for input from ladies and gentlemen regarding the things I have expressed. By making the arrangement as soon as possible, we will soon be able to choose the head of the study program and the head of the laboratory,” hoped the Rector.

Meanwhile, USU Vice Rector II Dr. Muhammad Arifin Nasution, S Sos, MSP, in the next session explained in detail the problems that exist in the institutional faculties and study programs within USU. He agreed with the Rector that efficiency and productivity issues are the two most important things that must be resolved, so that all of the rector's work programs can run well.

In his presentation entitled Departments, Study Programs and Laboratories at the Universitas Sumatera Utara, he revealed that the target to be achieved in the performance of the USU Strategic Plan 2020-2024 is the establishment of a sustainable Good University Government (GUG) governance system. The indicator is the percentage of implementation of organizational rearrangement of study programs, departments, faculties and vocational schools.

Vice Rector II USU also detailed the existence of departments, study programs, and laboratories owned by the Universitas Sumatera Utara at this time. There are various problems, including study programs that still do not have a study program chairman. For this reason, Vice Rector II hopes that the meeting will find solutions to various existing problems as well as proposals related to the organizational structure of the faculty and a mutually agreed action plan.

The meeting was attended by the Expert Staff of the USU Rector and the Deans of Faculties within the Universitas Sumatera Utara.

Author: Renny Julia Harahap - Public Relations

Interviewee: Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos, M.Si - USU Rector

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Public Relations

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara