MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Engineering
Master's Program In Chemical Engineering
Master Program
Chemical Engineering
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Master's Program in Chemical Engineering takes students to a deeper level of understanding of the basic principles of chemistry and their applications in industry and technology. Through a comprehensive curriculum, students will learn the latest concepts and methods in chemical process engineering, including materials processing, chemical analysis, and separation techniques. They will also engage in research that focuses on chemical technology innovation to solve real-world problems.

Supported by lecturers who are experts in their fields and modern laboratory facilities, USU's Master's Program in Chemical Engineering students will be equipped with practical skills and in-depth knowledge to become leaders in various industries, such as manufacturing, energy, pharmaceuticals, and the environment. In addition, the program also emphasizes the importance of professional ethics and environmental awareness in the practice of chemical engineering, so that graduates can make a positive contribution to society and the environment.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

pps_tk@usu.ac.id

Master's Program in Chemical Engineering

Accredited Unggul

0452/SK/LAM Teknik/AM/XII/2023

Vision of Master's Program in Chemical Engineering

To become a study program that can improve knowledge, research, and expertise in the field of food science for the development of the national food industry, especially in the utilization of local resources.

Mission of Master's Program in Chemical Engineering

Global Competitiveness

Organizing higher education for Master of Chemical Engineering based on a curriculum that refers to the Indonesian National Qualifications Framework (KKNI) and the National Higher Education Standards (SN-DIKTI) so as to produce graduates who are able to adapt and compete at a global level.

Skill Provision

Providing chemical engineering skills needed as a resource person, research engineer & process engineer in industry and waste management consultant.

Research Culture

Developing research and research culture that is oriented towards process technology issues and sustainable waste management for the welfare of society.

International Networking

Strengthen and expand national and international networks to enhance research activities.

Waste Management

Providing expertise in the field of process technology and waste management to the community to support the nation's competitiveness and independence.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Material

Natural Resources

Agroindustry

Contact Us
Master's Program in Chemical Engineering
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Almamater, Padang Bulan, Medan Baru, Medan City, North Sumatra, 20155

(+62) - 618211236

pps_tk@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara