MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
The Quality Management Unit Of Universitas Sumatera Utara (UMM USU) Holds International Accreditation Socialization
The Quality Management Unit of Universitas Sumatera Utara (UMM USU) holds International Accreditation Socialization
Published At
02 August 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
The Quality Management Unit of Universitas Sumatera Utara (UMM USU) holds International Accreditation Socialization
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 02 August 2021

MEDAN-UMM USU held an online socialization activity for Faculties/SPs and Study Programs which was attended by USU internals as well as public and private universities in Medan. The activity will take place on Thursday, June 24, 2021, at 08.00 AM to 04.00 PM, which will be carried out online through the Zoom Meeting application.

The socialization was opened by the Rector of USU, Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si.In his direction, the USU Rector said that USU has a mandate with the USU Strategic Plan 2020-2024 with the achievement of internationalization of performance, in which USU must be able to provide the best services and achievements in accordancewith international indicators.

USU is included in the QS World University rankings this year with a rank of 1201+ out of 16 universities in Indonesia that are included in the QS World University Rankings.This is a first step for USU to design an important agenda in the form of a work program in order to achieve the best and quality services, to meet the indicators included in international achievements.Study program accreditation needs to be seen as a planning process and continuous evaluation is always carried out with the spearhead being the improvement of study program services and facilities.The process of recording all activities, including basic weaknesses, for example in the administration of student and lecturer services, must be properly documented and carried out digitally.The improvement process is carried out through monitoring and evaluation as part of the university's internal quality assurance system.

This International Accreditation Socialization activity presented speakers, including the Director of Learning and Student Affairs, Prof. drh. Aris Junaidi, PhD, with material on the Policy of the Ministry of Education, Culture, Research and Technology on International Accreditation.The second resource person is a member of the Executive Board of the National Accreditation Board for Higher Education (BAN-PT) Sugiyono, PhD, with Materials for Synchronizing International Accreditation of Study Programs and Universities with National Accreditation.The third resource person is the Head of the Independent Accreditation Institute for Health Higher Education (LAM PTKes) Prof. dr. Usman Chatib Warsa, PhD.The fourth resource person IABEE-PII Chair Of International Committee for Human Resources Development Center (P2SDM) LPPM IPB Prof. Dr. Ir Muhammad Romli, MSc, St., with material Description and Identification of International Accreditation for Higher Education Study Programs in Indonesia, and the second material with the title Strategy and implementation for Achievement of International Accreditation for Science and Technology Study Programs.The fifth resource person, Dr. Ir Arief Daryanto, M.Ec, Member of ABEST21 from the Center for Human Resources Development (P2SDM) LPPM IPB with material on Strategy and Implementation for Achieving International Accreditation for Study Programs of Social, Cultural and Legal Studies.

This activity was held with the aim of knowing in depth about the essence, strategies, stages and benefits obtained from achieving international accreditation by faculties and study programs.On the other hand, socialization is also expected to provide clear enlightenment between the mandatory accreditation policies of BAN PT and LAM PTKes that must be carried out by study programs with government policies on international accreditation.Currently, the Ministry is encouraging universities to achieve international accreditation through improvingthe quality of education.

International accreditation is very important as a guarantee and recognition of the quality of higher education to produce graduates needed by the industrial community at the international level. In the addition to other benefits which is introducing universities in Indonesia to the international community so that they are better known and can become destinations for various international parties related to the mastery and strengthening of the fields of education, research and community service.

USU always follows the development of higher education in various aspects that accompany it, one of which is the focus of the university, namely public recognition of the graduates produced as resources that have the competencies needed by stakeholders/industry.One of the achievements of this recognition is directing Faculties/SPs and study programs to be able to obtain international accreditation predicate.This is a manifestation of the achievement of the vision and mission of USU, as well as an indicator of strategic targets in the USU Strategic Plan Year 2020-2024.

Present to accompany the Rector in participating in this activity, Vice Rector I Dr, Edy Ikhsan, SH, MA.A total of 404 participants who attended this workshop consisted of the Dean/Director of SPs, Deputy Dean I/Vice Director I, Deputy Dean II/Vice Director II, Deputy Dean III, Chair and Members of GJM 15 Faculties and 1 SPs as well as the Chairs and Secretaries 162 Study Programs at USU, as well as quality assurance from Medan State University (Unimed), North Sumatra State Islamic University (UINSU), North Sumatra Muhammadiyah University (UMSU), North Sumatra Islamic University (UISU), HKBP Nommensen, Panca Budi Development University, Medan Area University, Al Washliyah University, Prima Indonesia University, Harapan University, STIKOM Medan and other universities in the city of Medan.

In the second session, the event was divided into 2 zoom rooms;the first room with speakers from IABEE-PII Chair Of International Committee for Human Resources Development Center (P2SDM) LPPM IPB Prof. Dr. Ir Muhammad Romli, M.Sc, St. with material on Strategy and Implementation for Achieving International Accreditation for Science and Technology Study Programs.The second room with the fifth resource person ABEST21 HR Development Center (P2SDM) LPPM IPB Dr. Ir Arief Daryanto, MEc, with material on Strategy and Implementation for Achieving International Accreditationfor Social and Humanities (Soshum) Science Study Program.

The socialization was closed by the Chairperson of USU UMM Dr. dr. Isti Ilmiati Fujiati, M.Sc, CMFM, M Pd Ked, by providing a summary of activities.It was said that this socialization was to open insight into the essence, benefits, stages and strategies for obtaining International Accreditation, and for three study programs within USU that are currently moving towards international accreditation, namely Chemical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering and Industrial Engineering.It is hoped that the three study programs can help other study programs to immediately follow the international accreditation.(UMM/©ULC)

Author: The Quality Management Unit USU - -

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: The Quality Management Unit USU - -

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara