MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Rector Sends Off Delegates For The MTQMN XVII
Rector Sends Off Delegates for the MTQMN XVII
Published At
21 November 2023
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Rector Sends Off Delegates for the MTQMN XVII
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Tuesday, 21 November 2023

MTQ is not just a university ritual, but it becomes a cultural movement together at the faculty level," stated Prof. Mury.

USU PR- Universitas Sumatera Utara bid farewell to its students, heading to the 17th National Student Qur'an Recitation Contest (MTQMN XVII) in 2023. The farewell ceremony took place at the Prof. Dr. Suhadji Hadibroto Auditorium, Faculty of Economics & Business, USU, on Wednesday (1/11/2023).

This MTQMN event is participated in by 224 universities nationwide, both public and private, representing a 10% increase in participation compared to the previous year. USU has been preparing and mentoring its participants for the last three months, from August to October. A total of 28 delegates passed the selection process to represent USU at MTQMN, which will be held at Universitas Brawijaya, Malang, from November 3 to 10, 2023.

In his welcoming remarks, Prof. Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos, M.Si., the Rector of USU, emphasized that MTQMN is not just about chasing championships. The essential purpose of MTQMN is to improve morals, enhance character, and be beneficial to others.

"MTQ is not just a university ritual, but it becomes a cultural movement together at the faculty level," stated Prof. Mury.

During the same event, the Rector expressed regret over the decreased use of mosques in each faculty. The decline in religious activities, such as interpreting the meanings of the holy scriptures, conducting tafsir studies, and religious activities. Therefore, through this event, the Rector hopes that faculty mosques can be maximized to rebuild such activities.

Reporting on the mentoring activities, Afifudin Dalimunthe, S.P., M.P., the chairman of LPTQ USU, stated that USU students are participating in various competition categories, including recitation for males and females, recitation with melodious intonation for males and females, Sab'a Qira’a for females, the Parade of the Prophet's Biography involving 5 participants, Hifzil Quran 10 juz for males and females, and Arabic and English language debates.

Afifudin further explained that there are three participant selection categories: new students, senior students who passed the selection, and those directly recommended by the accompanying religious instructors.

"We selected participants for recitation from those who followed the guidance package we had last year, so there were new students, and some were senior students, all selected by their respective religious instructors. So, those who passed are recommended by their religious instructors, totaling 28 participants," Afifudin explained.

In line with the earlier statement by the Rector, Afifudin hopes that through MTQ, the spiritual level at Universitas Sumatera Utara will improve. He also encouraged all participants to maximize their efforts and never stop praying.

"So it is hoped that through MTQ, the spiritual level, especially at Universitas Sumatera Utara, will become better," said Afifudin.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Muhammad Andriansyah - Humas

News
Achievement
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara