MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Adds Four Permanent Professors
USU Adds Four Permanent Professors
Published At
11 February 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Adds Four Permanent Professors
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Friday, 11 February 2022

"USU will continue to fix and improve the Tri Darma service as an indicator of the fulfillment of the assessment of getting a functional position as a Professor," said the Rector.

PR USU - Universitas Sumatra Utara (USU) inaugurated four permanent professors. The Permanent Professor Inauguration Ceremony was held at the USU Auditorium and broadcast via YouTube, Thursday (10/02/2022).

The four professors are Prof. Dr. Dra. Rohani Ganie, M. Hum, Prof. Dr. Dra. Deliana, M. Hum, and Prof. Dr. Drs. Jonner Hasugian, M.Si from the Faculty of Cultural Sciences and Prof. Dr. dr. Elmeida Effendy, M.Ked., Sp.KJ (K) from the Faculty of Medicine.

Rector of USU Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si said USU currently has 175 professors. This number must continue to be increased to meet the requirements for the number of professors as an indicator set in assessing the quality of the Tri Dharma.

"USU will continue to improve and improve the Tri Darma service as an indicator of the fulfillment of the assessment of getting a functional position as a Professor," said the Rector.

According to the Rector, the role of Professors is very important in this Tri Darma adaptation program to become role models in fostering other lecturers to conduct research, write articles to be published in reputable international journals or have an innovative product.

"We really hope that the mentoring program needs to be carried out by one Professor to produce Tri Darma activities for other lecturers in terms of quality research, publications, and innovations so that they can have a good AD Scientist Index," he said.

Dr. Muryanto hopes that Professors through the Board of Professors will support USU's policies so that the achievement of the Key Performance Indicators can meet the gold standard and that WUR rankings can be achieved gradually towards 500 QS WUR.

One of the professors who was inaugurated, Prof. Dr. dr. Elmeida Effendy, M.Ked., Sp.KJ (K), delivered an inaugural speech entitled "Optimization of Telepsychiatry in Synergism of the Tridharma Aspects of Higher Education in the Era of Society 5.0".

Prof. Elmeida said that telepsychiatry had been known long before the Covid-19 pandemic, but it was increasingly popular and more widely used during pandemic situations, especially in the era of Society 5.0.

"The use of technology is not only accessing education, but synergizing with other skills which in the future will be useful both in self-actualization. All of which will support the pace of education," she explained.

Therefore, Prof. Elmeida said that optimizing telepsychiatry plays a role in fulfilling the Tri Dharma of Higher Education, namely education, research and community service.

"Telepsychiatry should be a synergistic part in the implementation of the Tri Dharma," he said.

On the same occasion, Prof. Dr. Dra. Deliana, M.Hum delivered a speech entitled "The Significance of Critical Thinking in Improving English Language Skills". “Learning a language is a long-term project. Skills abilities are built on a strong, persistent, and focused foundation,” she said.

She said that learning English needs to improve critical reading, critical writing, creating speaking, and critical listening.

"Critical thinking takes time and practice, the more active lecturers do it, the more students' critical thinking sharpness increases," she said.

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang, Muhammad Andriansyah - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara