MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Social Science And Political Science
Master's Program In Sociology
Master Program
Sociology
Universitas Sumatera Utara

As a master's program established in 2011, the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Master's Program in Sociology has an education that studies the assessment of social problems and phenomena based on scientific observations.

Our study program focuses on class and social mobility, religion, law, sexuality, stratification, and social deviance. Supported by outstanding educators who are qualified and nationally certified, our study program is projected to produce quality graduates who become sociology experts, such as social researchers and community empowerment consultants.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

magistersosiolgiusu@gmail.com

Master's Program in Sociology

Accredited Very Good

No. 1352/SK/BAN-PT/Ak.KP/M/IV/2023

Vision of Master's Program in Sociology

The realization of the Master's degree in Sociology FISIP USU as a center for Sociology studies with superior graduates and as a reference center for research and community empowerment models in Western Indonesia proactively responds to the challenges of the times in 2024

Mission of Master's Program in Sociology

Global

The USU Master of Sociology Study Program is a center for Sociology education whose qualified graduates can follow the scientific developments in the field of Sociology and answer the social dynamics that occur in society at the local and national levels as well as study social changes that happen in a global community, with a professional postgraduate education management system based on accountability and transparency.

Research and Public Service

The USU Master of Sociology Study Program can develop research and community service to support education and scientific advancement for stakeholders.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Politics

State

Government

Family

Religion

Environment

Industry

Agriculture

Social Welfare

Sociology of Education

Social Capital-Based Development Management

Contact Us
Master's Program in Sociology
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Prof. T. Hanafiah Padang Bulan, Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20222

(+62)-618211965

magistersosiolgiusu@gmail.com

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara