MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
University Activity
Application Of Growth Hormones, USU's Technological Assistance For Shallot Farmers
Application of Growth Hormones, USU's Technological Assistance for Shallot Farmers
Published At
21 May 2021
Published By
Christoffel Daniel Yesaya Tambunan
Application of Growth Hormones, USU's Technological Assistance for Shallot Farmers
 

Published by

Christoffel Daniel Yesaya Tambunan

Published at

Friday, 21 May 2021

Shallots are one of the leading agricultural commodities in North Sumatra Province. Almost all Indonesian dishes use shallots as a seasoning.

Not only that, but shallots also serve as a source of income and employment, contributing significantly to the local economic development.

Although farmers have a strong interest in shallot agribusiness, they still encounter several challenges in the farming process, both technical and economic. These farmers often face difficulties improving their agricultural productivity due to various factors, including limited knowledge of cultivation techniques. Meanwhile, its strategic position as a favorite cooking spice in various dishes has led to consumers' high demand for high-quality shallots.

Agricultural products, including shallots, still face issues related to price fluctuations and high sensitivity to market changes, mainly due to shifts in supply and demand. Farmers struggle with the high cost of quality seeds during the planting season, whereas during harvest, they face low selling prices.

In response to this, Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), through the Community Service Institute (LPPM) USU, led by Dr. Ir. Tavi Supriana, M.S., has provided technological assistance to farmers in one of the horticultural centers of North Sumatra Province, namely Siborongborong Subdistrict, North Tapanuli. This initiative aims to help farmers increase shallot production in the area. The technology introduced involves the application of growth hormones and seedling development for local farmers. The program was conducted in collaboration with the Agricultural Extension Center (BPP) Sinur, Siborongborong Subdistrict.

The activities included socialization on shallot cultivation, an introduction to growth hormones and training on their application methods, and the provision of high-quality shallot seedlings and growth hormones. Through this assistance, Dr. Tavi hopes that farmers will be more motivated to engage in shallot seedling production and better understand a more efficient shallot seedling marketing chain.

All socialization activities and aid distribution were conducted at the Agricultural Extension Center (BPP) Sinur, Siborongborong Subdistrict, on August 22, 2020. However, due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, the number of participants was limited, and strict health protocols were implemented to prevent virus transmission.

The progress and results achieved by the USU Community Service Team and the outcomes observed within the partner community include increased farmer motivation to cultivate shallots. Additionally, farmers have become more encouraged to engage in shallot seedling production and have gained a better understanding of a more efficient seedling marketing chain.

Article
University Activity
Community Service Activity
Find More Activity
University Activity
USU Lecturer Concern on the Extinction of Orangutan Tapanuli
University Activity
USU professor turns shrimp shell waste into face serum
University Activity
USU Research Collaboration Lowers Stunting Rate in Sergai

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara