MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
FH USU And Director General Of PKTN Kemenperindag MoA Consumer Protection Policy
FH USU and Director General of PKTN Kemenperindag MoA Consumer Protection Policy
Published At
09 December 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
FH USU and Director General of PKTN Kemenperindag MoA Consumer Protection Policy
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 09 December 2021

“How consumers love what they make in their country, this trust that we will return. We make our consumers feel that their rights are protected, so they believe in their own products,” the Dean of the Faculty of Law said.

USU PR - The Faculty of Law (FH) of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) signed a Memorandum of Agreement (MoA) with the Director General of Consumer Protection and Trade Order (PKTN) of the Indonesian Ministry of Trade (Kemendag) regarding consumer protection policies, Monday (12/6/2021).

Director General of PKTN Veri Anggrijono said the North Sumatran consumer empowerment index was above the national average consumer empowerment index. This shows that consumers in North Sumatra are already at a level capable of protecting and demanding their rights as Indonesian consumers.

"With this cooperation contract, students and lecturers, as well as the entire USU Faculty of Law academic community, are at the forefront of implementing this policy, especially in North Sumatra," said the Director General of PKTN.

According to Veri, in order to increase consumer empowerment, there needs to be synergy between stakeholders and various related stakeholders.

"The role of the government is of course not enough, for that it is necessary to collaborate with all other relevant stakeholders, one of which is the campus world which has an active role," he said.

Veri hopes that academics and students can become an extension of the government in implementing consumer protection. This is because students are at the forefront of disseminating information about smart and empowered consumers. According to him, students can educate through social media or go directly to the community.

"So it is hoped that with this collaboration the consumer empowerment index in North Sumatra can be further increased, forming smart and empowered North Sumatran consumers," said Veri.

On the same occasion, the Dean of USU's Faculty of Law, Dr. Mahmul Siregar, S.H., M.Hum said, the main product in this collaboration remains how the campus helps the government to be able to form smart, empowered consumers and love domestic products.

“How consumers love what they make in their country, this trust that we will return. We make our consumers feel that their rights are protected, so they believe in their own products,” the Dean of the Faculty of Law said.

Not only that, Dr. Mahmul added that this collaboration with the Ministry of Trade would be developed for the Tridharma activities of higher education.

"Not just for consumer protection issues in general, but we also direct this cooperation in Tridharma activities, such as research or in the implementation of MBKM," he continued.

Dr. Mahmul said that after the signing, other forms of cooperation would be formulated, such as research, service, counseling and advocacy. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara