MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
2021 USU 92 MoUs And 126 MoA Strengthen MBKM And Certified Interns
2021 USU 92 MoUs and 126 MoA Strengthen MBKM and Certified Interns
Published At
27 December 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
2021 USU 92 MoUs and 126 MoA Strengthen MBKM and Certified Interns
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 27 December 2021

"This internship program is expected to be able to provide an increase in the quality of skills and new insights to apprentices that will automatically provide added value for USU graduates to align with the needs of the industrial world and other employment sectors," said Vice Rector III.

USU PR - Throughout 2021, the Bureau of Research, Community Service and Cooperation under the Coordination of USU's Vice Rector III has signed a cooperation agreement consisting of 92 MoUs and 126 MoA. This was conveyed by the Vice Rector III Prof. Dr. Poppy Anjelisa Zaitun Hasibuan, S.Si., M.Sc., Apt. in the routine morning apple ceremony in the courtyard of the USU Administration Center Building, Monday (12/20/2021).

WR III added, for the achievement of the Independent Learning Cooperation Program for the Merdeka Campus which has been realized until the even semester of 2021/2022 FY, USU has collaborated with 18 partners for certified internship programs including PT Telkom Indonesia, PTPN IV, Peradi, BPJS Ketenagakerjaan, etc.

"This internship program is expected to be able to provide an increase in the quality of skills and new insights to apprentices that will automatically provide added value for USU graduates to align with the needs of the industrial world and other employment sectors," he said.

According to him, the increased absorption of USU graduates in various fields of professional work and the industrial world is expected to help boost the university's reputation and become a leading entity in nation building.

"Cooperation programs directed at developing and strengthening collaboration with government institutions, industry and other professional institutions also continue in various forms, which are tailored to the needs of MBKM," he continued.

WR III explained that the sustainability of this cooperation program is expected to grow and develop based on the principles of mutualism and synergy. According to him, the more study programs partnered with various sectors, the greater the marriage that was established and resulted in a symbiotic mutualism that was beneficial for students, universities and partners.

"The current study program is expected to be not only agile and aggressive in collaborating with local and national partners, but is also expected to increase the quantity and quality of synergies with world-class partners," said Prof. Poppy.

She hopes that, from the various forms of cooperation programs carried out, USU students can experience firsthand the ecosystem of the world of work, so that it will become a provision for their ability to live the real world of work in the future.

"This is the real transformation of the world of education, namely the quality of graduates who are relevant to the world of work and are highly competent," Prof. Poppy said.

On that occasion, Prof. Poppy also said that Research and Community Service activities also continue to be intensified in the service and research sectors that provide space for the birth and growth of new innovations in the corridor of scientific and technological progress.

"This innovation is expected to help the community in easing their economic and social activities, so they can improve their welfare and participate in development," she concluded. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara