MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Engineering
Undergraduate Program In Industrial Engineering
Undergraduate Program
Industrial Engineering
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Undergraduate Program in Industrial Engineering offers a comprehensive education in the field of industrial engineering. Students will explore the basic concepts of industrial engineering, such as production system design, operations management, production planning, and quality engineering. In addition, they will also learn about information technology in an industrial context, cost analysis, and supply chain management strategies.

With a comprehensive curriculum, supported by modern laboratory facilities and collaboration with leading industries, as well as qualified lecturers, graduates of this study program will be ready to take an important role in optimizing production processes, improving operational efficiency, and creating added value in various industrial sectors.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

dti.usu@gmail.com

Undergraduate Program in Industrial Engineering

Accredited Unggul

10500/SK/BAN-PT/AK-ISK/S/VIII/2021

Vision of Undergraduate Program in Industrial Engineering

To become an advanced and superior Industrial Engineering Study Program in the design, repair and installation of integrated systems that are able to compete globally.

Mission of Undergraduate Program in Industrial Engineering

High-quality

Organizing high quality teaching and learning activities to produce graduates who uphold professional ethics and are reliable in the design, repair and installation of integrated systems in accordance with the needs of the manufacturing and industrial world. and installation of integrated systems in accordance with the needs of the manufacturing and service industries in the era of global competition. services industry in the era of global competition.

Research

Conducting research and improving quality in a sustainable manner, especially in manufacturing and service engineering.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Manufacturing Systems Engineering

Human Factors Engineering

Management Science

Contact Us
Undergraduate Program in Industrial Engineering
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Almamater, USU Padang Bulan Campus, Medan City, 20155

(+62) - 618213251

dti.usu@gmail.com

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara