MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Wearing Javanese Traditional Clothes, USU Rector Leads National Teacher's Day Ceremony
Wearing Javanese Traditional Clothes, USU Rector Leads National Teacher's Day Ceremony
Published At
01 December 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Wearing Javanese Traditional Clothes, USU Rector Leads National Teacher's Day Ceremony
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 01 December 2021

The Rector said that teachers throughout Indonesia wanted a fair opportunity to achieve humane welfare, access to relevant and practical technology and training, as well as a simple curriculum that could accommodate the different abilities and talents of each student.

USU PR - Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., wearing Javanese traditional clothes while leading the 2021 National Teacher’s Day (HGN) commemoration ceremony at the USU Central Administration Bureau Building Courtyard on Thursday (11/25/2021).

With the theme for the 2021 HGN commemoration, “Move with Heart, Restore Education”, the USU Rector delivered a speech by the Minister of Education, Culture, Research and Technology (Mendikbudristek), Nadiem Anwar Makarim.

“Last year was a year full of challenges. We all stumble with the pandemic. Teachers from Sabang to Merauke were hit economically, hit by health, and hit mentally," he explained.

The Rector said that teachers throughout Indonesia wanted a fair opportunity to achieve humane welfare, access to relevant and practical technology and training, as well as a simple curriculum that could accommodate the different abilities and talents of each student.

“Teachers throughout Indonesia want their school leaders to side with students, not the bureaucracy. Teachers throughout Indonesia want the freedom to innovate without being colonized by uniformity,” he continued.

The speech also stated that the Merdeka Learning program had changed from a policy to a movement. For example, the simplification of the curriculum as one of the Independent Learning policies has succeeded in giving birth to thousands of learning innovations. In line with the Mendikbudristek speech, the Rector also conveyed his message to the entire USU academic community to strengthen educational services for students.

"Cultivate the spirit to educate the nation's life, it must not subside because of the bureaucracy, obstacles, teachers must be able to keep motivating the spirit to provide knowledge for students and students," he said.

The National Teacher's Day ceremony at USU itself was colored with traditional traditional clothes, the vice Rectors, deans, lecturers and all ceremony participants wore their own unique traditional clothes.

The Rector said that the selection of traditional clothing as the ceremonial uniform at the commemoration of the HGN reflects the diversity of Indonesia as a multicultural country in the spirit of Bhinneka Tunggal Ika (Unity in Diversity). (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara