MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Regular Morning Call, USU Vice Rector II Conveys Three Important Message
Regular Morning Call, USU Vice Rector II Conveys Three Important Message
Published At
25 August 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Regular Morning Call, USU Vice Rector II Conveys Three Important Message
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 25 August 2021

USU PUBLIC RELATIONS-MEDAN: Leading the morning meeting (known as Apel Pagi), the Vice Rector II of the Universitas Sumatera Utara(USU), Muhammad Arifin Nasution, S.Sos., MSP, emphasized three important things to be implemented in order to welcome the spirit of change and create a better USU. This was done to achieve USU's vision to become a university that has academic excellence, as a barometer of scientific progress that is able to compete at the global level; also in line with USU's 2020-2024 strategic plan towards internationalization characterized by local advantages.

He conveyed this directly in front of university leaders and work units who were present, both online and offline, Monday (8/16/2021) morning. “There are three main things that Universitas Sumatera Utara must prepare in developing a new governance system. The first thing is Bureaucratic Reform, one of which refers to the service sector, indicated by fast, precise, accurate and accountable service. This has started with the establishment of the One-Stop Application (ASA) at the faculty as well as the Integrated Service Center (PPT) at the university level. Bureaucratic reform is also manifested in the construction of the Corruption-Free Area (WBK) integrity zone and the Free-Serve Bureaucratic Area (WBBM)," said Arifin.

The formation of ASA and PPT has cut public service lines so that they run more concisely and on target. The university service indicator is a value system that has become an icon or label for higher education services at USU.

The second thing he emphasized was increasing USU's revenue and also financial efficiency and effectiveness. USU's revenue stream which is being maximized is through increased cooperation and management of business units, apart from student UKT/SPP. Meanwhile, to support financial efficiency and effectiveness, a new financial system policy was implemented through virtual accounts and cash management.

“This autonomous financial management must refer to the principles of efficiency, productivity, transparency, and accountability in a corporate style that is always oriented towards high service quality. For this reason, USU has issued a new financial policy by implementing a Virtual Account and Cash Management system that replaces the traditional financial transaction system in payments. This Virtual Account policy is also a solution that supports health protocols during the Covid-19 pandemic by reducing direct payments that invite crowds," he said.

The third thing that is no less important is the performance of human resources. He believes that the key to the success of all PTN-BH implementation efforts lies in the performance of the staff, lecturers and employees. Especially for employees, USU is committed to improving HR performance by implementing performance-based remuneration as well as rewards and punishments.

“USU is preparing a remuneration scheme based on the level of responsibility, demands for professionalism, proportionality, equality, and propriety. The remuneration is a consequence of the hard work of all stakeholders in realizing effective service quality, education, research, and community service," the Vice Rector II said.

Vice Rector II of USU appealed to both lecturers and staff to get ready and harmonize, improve their competence and potential and adapt well to all the changes made, so that the transformation process carried out can run well and quickly for a better USU.

“Let's start changing old habit patterns of working and thinking, becoming a newer version of ourselves, more passionate, more creative and innovative in doing routine work. Work with the spirit of synergy to build USU to be the best. We are all one-unity, which requires thought and motion together to produce exceptional performance. Believe me, we can be more than mediocre, as long as we want to. And remember, results never betray the effort. Let's carry out everything that we have planned and determined in order to bring USU to become a world-class university. Together we can make it happen," he concluded. (RJ/RR/©ULC)

 

Author: Roni Hikmah Ramadhan, Renny Julia Harahap - PR

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - PR

News
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara