MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
YIAK Opens Scholarship For Final Year Students At USU
YIAK Opens Scholarship for Final Year Students at USU
Published At
21 June 2024
Published By
David Kevin Handel Hutabarat
YIAK Opens Scholarship for Final Year Students at USU
 

Published by

David Kevin Handel Hutabarat

Published at

Friday, 21 June 2024

In 2023, the YIAK scholarship program was implemented, and it is hoped that this year more alumni will contribute to the endowment so that more students will receive financial assistance for their education," added Rahma in her interview.

USU PR — YIAK, the Izzatul Amaliyah Kamusu Foundation, launched its 2024 Final Year Study Assistance scholarship program for Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) students on Thursday (Jun. 20, 2024) at the Digital Learning Center Building.

The Vice Rector I of USU, Dr. Edy Ikhsan S.H., M.A., emphasized that this endowment-based scholarship should inspire young Muslims to raise awareness about endowments in society. He hopes all stakeholders, including universities, alumni, foundations, businesses, and the government, can collaborate to optimize funding allocation and help underprivileged students through scholarships.

The scholarship offers financial assistance and includes a copy of the Quran and in-depth knowledge about endowments for selected students, who will then be appointed as endowment ambassadors. The Chairman of YIAK, drg. Zulkifli Nasution, M.Sc., CMC., hopes these ambassadors will understand the foundation's procedures, ensuring the program's sustainability.

The Indonesian Waqf Agency (BWI) also offers socialization, literacy, and education programs to explain endowment procedures. One such program is Wakaf Goes to Campus, which Ir. Hasrul Hasan M.M., a BWI Sumut board member, hopes to collaborate with USU. Students can become driving forces in socializing endowment literacy and its potential to the wider community.

The USU Alumni Association (IKA USU) Chairman for Jakarta and surrounding areas, Marolop Nainggolan, agrees that this scholarship program is a strategic first step toward USU obtaining an Endowment Fund. Alumni across Indonesia can mobilize their potential to raise endowments for this fund.

The Director of Student Achievement and Alumni Relations at USU, Rahma Yurliani, S.Psi., M.Psi., also hopes for strong alumni cooperation to support the education of USU students.

"In 2023, the YIAK scholarship program was implemented, and it is hoped that this year more alumni will contribute to the endowment so that more students will receive financial assistance for their education," added Rahma in her interview.

As the supervisor of YIAK, Ir. Azwar Lubis IPM. MK. expressed his hope that students can become a "cauldron of chandradimuka" (a place for forging strong characters) and pillars of the young Islamic generation. This aims to ensure good and sustainable regeneration, including fostering family relationships between alumni and students.

The scholarship criteria include being in the 8th semester with a GPA above 3. However, further discussions will take place as the primary focus is on the good intentions of Islamic students to continue the endowment tradition. Interested students must fill out a Google Form with their identity and then participate in online interviews and Quran recitation selections. This year, 14 students from all faculties at USU will be accepted.

News
Scholarship
SDGs 4
SDGs
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara