MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Y20 Roadshow At USU Discusses Implementation Of Digital Tale
Y20 Roadshow at USU Discusses Implementation of Digital Tale
Published At
31 October 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Y20 Roadshow at USU Discusses Implementation of Digital Tale
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Monday, 31 October 2022

“What USU will do is change from manual to digital by providing a lot of socialization in advance from the guidelines that are available to lecturers to students about, for example, what will be the consequences if we don't change? If we change, what positive impact do we have?” said the Rector of USU.

USU PR - Youth 20 (Y20) chose North Sumatra University (USU) as one of the universities visited in the Y20 Indonesia Roadshow with the theme "The Role of the Young Generation in Implementing Digital Talent Towards Revolution 5.0". This roadshow was held at the USU Student Center on Monday, (10/17/2022).

Youth 20 is a forum for the voices of the younger generation from all G20 member countries to be able to dialogue with each other and increase awareness of global issues, exchange ideas, argue, negotiate, and reach consensus.

Rector of the Universitas Sumatera Utara Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si said that in an era where digitalization and revolution 5.0 are being intensified, USU will transform from manual to digital in various fields. However, this requires socialization in the form of a guide to lecturers and students first.

“What USU will do is change from manual to digital by providing a lot of socialization in advance from the guidelines that are available to lecturers to students about, for example, what will be the consequences if we don't change? If we change, what positive impact do we have?” said the Rector of USU.

The Head of the Medan City Education Office, Laksamana Putra Siregar, S.H., MSP hopes that the younger generation of Indonesia will be ready to face the 2045 Golden Indonesia. Therefore, this roadshow can be a provision that will provide output to improve welfare in the student environment and realize the acceleration of public services for the welfare of the people of the City Medan.

"So we hope that with this activity there will be an increase in the welfare of the students themselves, especially the people who live around them," he said.

Co-Chair of Y20 Indonesia 2022 Michael Victor Sianipar appealed to young people to prepare for disruption with the many technological changes and their various impacts. For this reason, it is necessary to prepare digital literacy skills so that they do not fall into a negative direction.

“So what we know now, actually the world is facing a disruptive digital transformation. It's not even just a transformation, but there is a disruption that will change many things in our society and life," he said. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Irsan Mulyadi - Humas

News
Management
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara