MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Public Health
Doctoral Program In Public Health Science
Doctoral Program
Public Health Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Doctoral Program in Public Health Science of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is the highest level of education in public health science at the Faculty of Public Health.

This program is a continuation of the Master's Program in Public Health Science, which aims to develop independent scientific research skills to make a meaningful contribution to the field of public health science. Our teaching staff consists of nationally experienced public health experts. We are committed to guiding students to become professional public health experts in developing health management concepts and research at both national and international levels. Our graduates are expected to be able to carry out their responsibilities as health experts, health researchers, or health promoters with high professionalism and dedication.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

s3kesmas@usu.ac.id

Doctoral Program in Public Health Science

Accredited Excellent

No. 0510/LAM-PTKes/ Akr/Dok/VII/2023

Vision of Doctoral Program in Public Health Science

To become an Internationally Standardized Doctoral Study Program in Developing Public Health Science in Tropical Regions.

Mission of Doctoral Program in Public Health Science

Technology-Based Education

To organize doctoral education that is of quality, responsive, innovative, independent, and based on modern learning technology.

Scientific Research

To organize scientific research to develop public health science in tropical regions and publish them in reputable international journals.

Community Service

To organize responsive and innovative community service to enhance the quality of public health in tropical regions.

Expanding Cooperation

To expand cooperation networks with national and international universities, governments, industries, professions, and organizations to support the quality of education, research, and community service.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Health Administration and Policy

Hospital Administration

Community Health Administration/Epidemiology

Public Nutrition Administration and Policy

Disaster Health Management

Contact Us
Doctoral Program in Public Health Science
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Universitas No. 21, Kampus USU Medan, 20155

(061) - 8213221

s3kesmas@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara