MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
Along With Minister Nadiem, USU Rector Attends YPIM 35th Anniversary
Along with Minister Nadiem, USU Rector Attends YPIM 35th Anniversary
Published At
01 September 2022
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
Along with Minister Nadiem, USU Rector Attends YPIM 35th Anniversary
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Thursday, 01 September 2022

The Rector of USU congratulated YPSIM on the inauguration of the building and laying the first stone and hopefully it can strengthen Indonesian education in Indonesia's diversity so as to make the nation's children have the same productivity as society. "Congratulations to YPSIM on the inauguration of the building and laying the groundwork for Satya Terra Bhinneka University," he said.

PR USU - Rector of the Unversitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si attended the 35th Anniversary of the Sultan Iskandar Muda Education Foundation (YPSIM). The event took place at the Sultan Iskandar Muda College Foundation, on Thursday (8/25/2022).

On this 35th anniversary, YPSIM enlivened its birthday by inaugurating the Vocational High School (SMK), laying the groundwork for the Satya Terra Bhinneka University, and performing arts from YPSIM students from the Elementary School (SD), Junior High School (SMP), High School (SMA), and Vocational High School (SMK).

The Rector of USU congratulated YPSIM on the inauguration of the building and laying the first stone and hopefully it can strengthen Indonesian education in Indonesia's diversity so as to make the nation's children have the same productivity as society.

"Congratulations to YPSIM on the inauguration of the building and laying the groundwork for Satya Terra Bhinneka University," he said.

As the owner of the foundation, dr. Sofyan Tan said that this foundation was built to help people who could not afford even though the founders of the foundation were among the poor, but the desire to help others was very strong.

"I come from a poor family, but I want to help people who can't afford it too," he concluded.

Therefore, YPSIM does not separate its students from any class, ethnicity, nor religion. If there are students who can't afford it, the foundation is ready to provide assistance and students who excel will get scholarships until they finish college. This scholarship is covered by the Sofyan Tan Scholarship. "At this school, we really appreciate the differences of every human being," he said.

Sofyan Tan also said that Satya Terra Bhinneka University was taken from 3 (three) languages, namely Sanskrit, Latin, and Old Javanese, with the hope that this university can have the value of truth or goodness from the earth and the land in religion.

He hopes that graduates from Satya Terra Bhinneka University can continue their thoughts that do not differentiate people from their class, culture, or religion and can educate the nation's life. "I hope that later graduates from Satya Terra Bhinneka University can continue my thoughts to help everyone," said Sofyan Tan.

Minister of Education, Culture, Research, and Technology Nadiem Anwar Makarim, B.A., M.B.A said that this interfaith diversity is very good coupled with various kinds of houses of worship and interfaith prayers, and hopes that many schools will imitate this diversity because it is included in diversity which increases one's ability to live in diversity.

"My big hope is that many schools will imitate the diversity and symbol of YPSIM in establishing various houses of worship, and interfaith prayer," he said. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Amri Simatupang - Humas

News
Campus Life
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara