MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Education
Faculty Of Social Science And Political Science
Master's Program In Development Studies
Master Program
Development Studies
Universitas Sumatera Utara

The Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Master's Program in Development Studies is a study program that provides education on knowledge and skills in analyzing the complexity of development, preparing development programs, and determining integrated and regional-based policies.

Accompanied by the best teaching staff with extensive experience, the Master's Program in Development Studies has a solid goal to produce graduates who have the ability and mastery of development theories that can be applied in examining development problems that affect humans, social, economic, and political sectors in local, national, regional, or international scope. Our graduates have broad career prospects as experts in government and private institutions.

Visit Study Program Page

Need more information? visit the faculty website, or contact us via e-mail.

msp@usu.ac.id

Master's Program in Development Studies

Accredited B

No. 4016/SK/BAN-PT/Ak.Ppj/M/V/2024

Vision of Master's Program in Development Studies

Making the Master of Development Studies Program at the Faculty of Social and Political Sciences, University of Sumatera Utara, a leading education program in Development Studies characterized by continuous knowledge improvement and professionalism towards a university for industry.

Mission of Master's Program in Development Studies

Education and Teaching

Carrying out the education and teaching process to improve knowledge and practical skills in analyzing the complexity of development, developing development programs, establishing integrated and regional-based policies, and being able to compete at the local, regional, and national levels.

Research

Carrying out the education and teaching process to improve knowledge and practical skills in analyzing the complexity of development, developing development programs, establishing integrated and regional-based policies, and being able to compete at the local, regional, and national levels.

Concentration

Concentration is a field of specialization that can be chosen by students to deepen specific knowledge and skills in the study program they take. By choosing a concentration that suits their interests and talents, students can develop more in-depth competencies that are relevant to the needs of the job market. Concentration also helps students to explore specific fields that are of interest and passion to them, thus expanding their horizons and enriching their learning experience.

Contact Us
Master's Program in Development Studies
Universitas Sumatera Utara

Jl. Prof. T. Hanafiah Padang Bulan, Medan Baru, Kota Medan, Sumatera Utara 20222

(+62) - 618221346

msp@usu.ac.id

USU Virtual Campus

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara