MBKM
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
WELCOMING THE INTERNATIONALS
ALUMNI & CAREER
LECTURERS & STAFF
MEDIA & PARTNERS
ACCREDITATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS
BAHASA
Universitas
Sumatera Utara
ABOUT USU
EDUCATION
ADMISSION
RESEARCH
COMMUNITY SERVICE
INNOVATION
search
Activities
News
USU Travel Study Program PKL Tourism Village Management At "Pasar Kamu"
USU Travel Study Program PKL Tourism Village Management at "Pasar Kamu"
Published At
17 November 2021
Published By
Bambang Riyanto
USU Travel Study Program PKL Tourism Village Management at "Pasar Kamu"
 

Published by

Bambang Riyanto

Published at

Wednesday, 17 November 2021

The visit is a series of Field Work Practice (PKL) activities related to the community-based tourism village management course material which aims to improve student competence.

USU PR - Students of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) Travel Study Program visited the Youth Work Breakfast Week tourist attraction (Pasar Kamu) located in Denai Lama Village, Deliserdang, North Sumatra (North Sumatra), Sunday (11/14/2021).

This visit is a series of Field Work Practice (PKL) activities related to the subject matter of community-based tourism village management which aims to improve student competence.

Head of USU Travel Study Program, Koko Sujatmoko SE, MSi said, in this activity students made observations related to the management of Pasar Kamu tourism objects which were carried out independently by the local community.

"From this activity, it is hoped that students can learn directly related to the management and existence of the current Tourism Village," he said.

Not only exploring knowledge related to the management of tourist villages, in this location the students were also presented with various artistic attractions from Malay culture. One of the performances of cultural attractions is a traditional Malay wedding procession called hempang Batang which is a process of meeting the bride and groom in the style of Malay custom.

In addition, students also participated in traditional food cooking demonstrations directly from a trader who was at the tourist attraction location. Aside of that, at the end of the activity the students also had the opportunity to learn and practice the traditional Malay dance "Lenggang Patah Sembilan" which was mentored by cultural activists in Danai Lama Village.

Denai Lama Village was chosen as the location for street vendors on this occasion by USU's Tourism Study Program not without reason. The very rapid progress in terms of self-help management by the community is something that deserves appreciation.

"Salute, the people are really serious and very solid in managing tourism, and making their village a quality tourism village," said Koko.

It is known, Pasar Kamu in the village of Denai Lama is a traditional market that serves a variety of traditional culinary and rural specialties, as well as food from raw materials produced by the local community. As the name implies, the Pasar Kamu tourist attraction is only open once a week, namely on Sundays starting from 07.00 WIB until near noon. Even so, this does not reduce the interest of tourists to come to visit.

Solihin, one of the founders as well as the manager of this tourist attraction, explained that the presence of this breakfast week tour was intended to encourage the community's economy and become a place for friendship between fellow residents in Denai Lama Village and its surroundings.

"This market is expected to become a driving force for the local economy by relying on the potential that is managed independently," said Solihin. (©ULC)

Author: Bambang Riyanto - Humas

Interviewee: - - -

Photographer: Humas - Humas

News
Community
Find More News
News
USU Receives Visit from UNIMA for Assistance in Establishing Faculty of Medicine
News
Secretary of Universitas Sumatera Utara Attends the 79th Bhayangkara Day Ceremony
News
Prof. Bungaran Saragih Gives Public Lecture on Agricultural Downstreaming at USU

Chatting with

Halo USU

close

Halo,
Dengan Layanan Bantuan USU
Ada yang bisa kami bantu hari ini?
-Admin

SEND

UNIVERSITAS
SUMATERA UTARA

Jl. Dr. T. Mansur No. 9, Kampus Padang Bulan, Medan, 20155, Sumatera Utara
call
0821 6888 9060
mail_outline
info@usu.ac.id
Information Systems
Integrated Service Unit
Frequently Asked Questions
Usage Rules
Website Copyright
Sitemap
PPID
Lapor
E-Procurement
Surveys
Archives
Career at USU

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara