USU Official
Prospective Students
Students
Alumni & Careers
Lecturers & Staff
International Visitors
Media & Partners
Services
Accreditation & Achievements
Virtual Gallery
EN
expand_more
Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology
Universitas Sumatera Utara
About Us
Education
Research
Community Service
News
E-Magazine
Faculty News
Faculty Agenda
Faculty Announcement
Faculty Article
PPID Executive
The 6ᵀᴴ International Conference on Computing and Applied Informatics 2022
Time

Tuesday, 8th November, 2022 8:00 AM

Tuesday, 8th November, 2022 6:00 PM

Location

Online via Zoom Meeting

Registration
Description

Fasilkom-TI International Conference with the theme A New World of Research: Sustainable Research in a Digital World

Event Notification: The Conference's Book of Abstracts is available through this link

 

Theme: "A New World of Research: Sustainable Research in a Digital World"

The recent event of pandemic has transformed our life significantly. We are required to embrace new normals and new standards in our way of living. To perform this transformation, research played a significant role to introduce new innovations in order to speed up the process. However, planning and performing a sustainable research in this changing environment were also a challenge. Researchers were required to adapt their way to perform collaboration and communication. During this transformaiton, we have introduced several innovation such as concept, methods, and tools, to maintain a sustainable research.


The Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology, Universitas Sumatera Utara, is inviting all researchers to present their work in The 6th International Confrence on Computing and Applied Informatics 2022. Our objective is to provide an environment where participating researchers are able to communicate, disscuiss, and collaborate in this event. In this conference, researchers are invited to share their research and innovation while experiences and challenges in maintaining a sustainable research in a changing environment.

Agenda
Find Other Agenda
Agenda

Fasilkom-TI USU Promotes Integrity Through Anti-Corruption Awareness Program

Agenda

Fasilkom-TI Celebrates Success in PKKMB 2024.

Agenda

Fasilkom-TI Conducts Practical Lecture on User Experience Design

FACULTY OF COMPUTER SCIENCE AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
UNIVERSITAS SUMATERA UTARA

Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology Universitas Sumatera Utara

9 Universitas Road, Medan, North Sumatra, Indonesia 20155

mail
fasilkomti@usu.ac.id (General enquiries or feedback)
Sitemap
Report
Frequently Asked Questions
Archive
Website Usage Policy
Website Copyright

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara