USU Official
Prospective Students
Students
Alumni & Careers
Lecturers & Staff
International Visitors
Media & Partners
Services
Accreditation & Achievements
Virtual Gallery
EN
expand_more
Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology
Universitas Sumatera Utara
About Us
Education
Research
Community Service
News
E-Magazine
Faculty News
Faculty Agenda
Faculty Announcement
Faculty Article
PPID Executive

> News > Fasilkom-TI and FMIPA UGM Successfully Conduct Focus Group Discussion (FGD) on Knowledge Management Based on COVID-19 Mitigation Analysis with Big Data

Fasilkom-TI and FMIPA UGM Successfully Conduct Focus Group Discussion (FGD) on Knowledge Management Based on COVID-19 Mitigation Analysis with Big Data
Published At

02 August 2024

Published By

Ahmad Fadhil S.Kom

Thumbnail Fasilkom-TI and FMIPA UGM Successfully Conduct Focus Group Discussion (FGD) on Knowledge Management Based on COVID-19 Mitigation Analysis with Big Data
The USU and UGM held a COVID-19 Knowledge Management FGD on August 2, 2024, supported by BRIN, focusing on big data analytics and mitigation strategies.

The Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology (Fasilkom-TI) of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), in collaboration with the Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences (FMIPA) of Universitas Gadjah Mada, conducted a Focus Group Discussion (FGD) on Knowledge Management based on COVID-19 Mitigation Analysis using Big Data. This event was supported by the National Research and Innovation Agency (BRIN) for the 2023-2024 Research and Innovation Program for Advanced Indonesia. The discussion took place on Friday, August 2, 2024, at the Hall of the Faculty of Nursing, Universitas Sumatera Utara. The event was also supported by the Provincial Government of North Sumatra and the North Sumatra Health Office.

The objective of this event was to explore COVID-19 knowledge in Big Data Management and COVID-19 Analytics on a national scale, and to establish a Data Analytics facility for executing use cases and analytical scenarios that support decision-making for mitigation efforts.

The event began with participant registration, followed by the singing of the national anthem "Indonesia Raya," a prayer, an opening speech by the Dean of Fasilkom-TI, Dr. Maya Silvi Lydia B.Sc., M.Sc., and remarks from the Lead Researcher, Dr. Mardhani Riasetiawan. There was also a plaque presentation, a group photo session, and an opening speech by the Head of the Emerging Infectious Diseases Handling Team of North Sumatra Province, Dr. Restuti Hidayani Saragih, Sp.PD, K-PTI, FINASIM, M.H.(Kes).

The first presentation was delivered by the Head of the North Sumatra Provincial Health Office, Drs. Basarin Yunus Tanjung, M.Si, with the title "Management of COVID-19 Handling in North Sumatra." In his presentation, he reviewed the history of COVID-19 cases in North Sumatra, starting with the first positive case on March 17, 2020. He then explained the health services provided in North Sumatra to handle COVID-19 cases, such as COVID-19 referral hospitals, digital tracing implementation, testing and treatment (3T), epidemiological investigations, periodic testing in workplaces, community activity restrictions, and more.

The next session covered the management of COVID-19 handling in various regions such as Medan City, Deli Serdang, Pematang Siantar, Simalungun, and Serdang Bedagai. The presentations were delivered by the respective Heads of the Regional Health Offices. Key points in these presentations included reports on the number of COVID-19 cases in each region, the challenges faced in handling the cases, and the steps taken by the Health Offices.

Following the presentations, the FGD sessions were conducted. The first FGD session was moderated by Dr. Inke Nadia Diniyanti Lubis M.Ked(Ped)., Sp.A, Ph.D, and the second session was moderated by Dr. Siti Zahara Nasution S.Kp., MNS. During these sessions, FGD participants, including Hospital Directors from North Sumatra, doctors involved during the COVID-19 pandemic, nurses, analysts, pharmacists, surveillance officers, law enforcers, business actors, the Head of the North Sumatra Province National Unity and Politics Agency, religious leaders, scout volunteers, Bhabinkamtibmas from Medan Belawan Police, and media representatives, discussed the scope of knowledge management for COVID-19 from various points of view such as community empowerment, data perspective, technology perspective, legality of implementation, and all aspects concerning the situation during the COVID-19 pandemic. The event concluded with the presentation of souvenirs and a group photo session.

News
Find Other News
News

Fasilkom-TITerima Fasilitas CSR Wifi Corner dari PT Pertamina Gas Negara

News

Class Visit from SMAS Sukma Bangsa Lhokseumawe to Fasilkom-TI USU

News

Fasilkom-TI USU Promotes Integrity Through Anti-Corruption Awareness Program

FACULTY OF COMPUTER SCIENCE AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
UNIVERSITAS SUMATERA UTARA

Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology Universitas Sumatera Utara

9 Universitas Road, Medan, North Sumatra, Indonesia 20155

mail
fasilkomti@usu.ac.id (General enquiries or feedback)
Sitemap
Report
Frequently Asked Questions
Archive
Website Usage Policy
Website Copyright

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara