USU Official
Prospective Students
Students
Alumni & Careers
Lecturers & Staff
International Visitors
Media & Partners
Services
Accreditation & Achievements
Virtual Gallery
EN
expand_more
Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology
Universitas Sumatera Utara
About Us
Education
Research
Community Service
News
E-Magazine
Faculty News
Faculty Agenda
Faculty Announcement
Faculty Article
PPID Executive
Building the Foundation for a Digital Future
Doctoral Program in Computer Science
General Information
About
Academic
Research & Service
Alumni
Activities
SDGs

The Doctoral Program in Computer Science of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) is the highest level of computer science education at USU. This program serves as an advanced education for graduates of the postgraduate program to deepen their scientific research skills independently to make significant contributions in the field of information technology.

Supported by professional and internationally reputable industry experts, we are committed to guiding students to become computer and information technology experts and professionals in developing concepts of science, technology, and research at the national or international level. Graduates of this program are expected to be able to carry out their responsibilities and profession as qualified, knowledgeable, and experienced IT experts so that they can contribute to advancing technological development in Indonesia. They have career opportunities at the highest level in various IT fields, including as computer science researchers, artificial intelligence designers and consultants, data scientists, system managers, and information technology professionals.

Vision & Mission

Vision
remove

To become a leading study program in the field of Computer Science research to bridge the world of education with industry in a global order in 2020.

Mission
remove
To organize areas of expertise and research in Computer Science in the field of computing, including soft computing, information retrieval, intelligent systems, mathematical modeling, and advanced networking.
To organize a research-based Doctoral Study Program in the field of Computer Science.
To develop innovative science and technology that can contribute to a better quality of life in society in the frame of Tropical Science and Medicine, Agroindustry, Local Wisdom, Energy [sustainable], Natural Resources [biodiversity, forest, marine, mine, tourism], Technology [appropriate] and Arts [ethnic] (TALENTA) USU.
To organize and develop methodologies for the development of Computer Science and Information and Communication Technology (ICT) so they are able to become problem solvers within the scope of their expertise.
To organize research and community service activities related to scientific principles in thinking, behaving, and acting as scientists in the field of Computer Science who can contribute to a better quality of life in society while upholding ethics and morals.

Goals & Targets

Goals
remove
To produce graduates with insights in the computing field, including soft computing, information retrieval, intelligent system, mathematical modeling, and advanced networking.
To produce graduates who are open and responsive to the development and advancement of Computer Science.
To produce graduates who have the core values of BINTANG (Devoted to Almighty God in the frame of diversity, Innovative and has Integrity, Resilient and Wise) who can solve problems in the field of Computer Science.
To produce graduates who master the methodology of developing Computer Science and information and communication technology (ICT) so they are able to become problem solvers in the scope of their expertise.
To produce graduates who master scientific principles in thinking, behaving, and acting as scientists in the field of Computer Science who can contribute to a better quality of life in society while upholding ethics and morals.

Organization Structure

Prof. Drs. Poltak Sihombing M.Kom., Ph.D
Head Of Doctoral Program In Computer Science
Prof. Dr. Syahril Efendi S.Si., M.IT.
Prof. Drs. Mahyuddin M.IT., Ph.D.
Prof. Dr. Drs. Opim Salim Sitompul M.Sc
Dr. Maya Silvi Lydia B.Sc., M.Sc.
FACULTY OF COMPUTER SCIENCE AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
UNIVERSITAS SUMATERA UTARA

Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology Universitas Sumatera Utara

9 Universitas Road, Medan, North Sumatra, Indonesia 20155

mail
fasilkomti@usu.ac.id (General enquiries or feedback)
Sitemap
Report
Frequently Asked Questions
Archive
Website Usage Policy
Website Copyright

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara