USU Official
Prospective Students
Students
Alumni & Careers
Lecturers & Staff
International Visitors
Media & Partners
Services
Accreditation & Achievements
Virtual Gallery
EN
expand_more
Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology
Universitas Sumatera Utara
About Us
Education
Research
Community Service
News
E-Magazine
Faculty News
Faculty Agenda
Faculty Announcement
Faculty Article
PPID Executive
Building the Foundation for a Digital Future
Undergraduate Program in Information Technology
General Information
About
Academic
Research & Service
Alumni
Activities
SDGs

The Undergraduate Program in Information Technology focuses on developing knowledge in Data Science and Intelligent Systems to produce excellent, professional graduates with global competitiveness. The program provides an education that equips students with academic competencies, technical skills, and an understanding of ethics and professional responsibility in applying information technology. The curriculum is designed to provide a strong foundation in information technology, data analysis, artificial intelligence, server and network security, information technology infrastructure management, and multidisciplinary aspects that support the development of data-driven computing solutions. Students are also equipped with teamwork skills, effective communication, and the ability to adapt to technological advancements. In the research field, the study program encourages the development of data-driven and artificial intelligence-based innovations relevant to industry and societal needs. Additionally, the study program actively engages in community service activities by applying research findings to enhance information literacy and technology-based solutions.

Graduates of the Information Technology study program have competencies in systematically applying information technology theories and practices, developing data-driven computing solutions, fostering multidisciplinary collaboration, and building technology-based entrepreneurship.

History

2007

The proposal for the establishment of the Undergraduate Program in Information Technology was submitted in early 2007 with the goal of adding one more study program within the computing discipline, in addition to the Undergraduate Program in Computer Science that had been established in 2002. However, at that time, in the nomenclature rules of the Directorate General of Higher Education (Dikti), the name Information Technology Study Program was not yet known. This study program was still confused with the name of the study program known at that time as the Informatics Study Program, which was actually another name for the Computer Science Study Program. After discussions with the Director General of Higher Education, a decree was finally issued for the establishment of the study program, but under the name of the Undergraduate Program in Software Engineering. Thus, the Undergraduate Program in Software Engineering was officially established in 2007. Through Dikti Decree No. 1629/D/T/2007 dated July 16, 2007. In the early days of its establishment, this study program was managed under the Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences of Universitas Sumatera Utara (FMIPA USU). At the end of 2007, the Decree of the Director General of Higher Education No. 163/KEP/DIKTI/2007, dated November 27, 2007, on the Structuring and Codification of Study Programs in Higher Education Institutions. The naming of undergraduate (S-1) computer study programs is as follows: 1. Informatics Engineering (S-1); 2. Computer Systems (S-1); and 3. Information Systems (S-1) In this naming system, it can be seen that there is no place for the Undergraduate Programs in Computer Science and Software Engineering. Therefore, USU took the policy to adjust the naming of these two study programs to become the Undergraduate Program in Information Systems and the Undergraduate (S-1) Program in Informatics Engineering.

2010

However, the naming system proposed by the Director General of Higher Education received challenges from various higher education institutions, especially those with computer study programs, due to the controversy that arose because many study programs were not accommodated in the new naming system. Asosiasi Perguruan Tinggi Informatika dan Komputer (APTIKOM or the Association of Informatics and Computer Higher Education Institutions) finally resolved this issue by proposing a system of naming and structuring study programs in the field of Informatics and Computers. The result was the Circular Letter of the Director General of Higher Education No. 1030/D/T/2010 on the Structuring of Nomenclature for Psychology, Communication, Computer, and Landscape Study Programs.

arrow_back_ios_new arrow_forward_ios

Vision & Mission

Vision
remove

To become a superior and professional study program in the development of knowledge in the field of Information Technology with emphasis on Data Science and Intelligent System to produce graduates with global competitiveness.

Mission
remove
To organize education with excellent academic competence and professionalism in mastering the field of Information Technology that is specialized in the fields of Data Science and Intelligent System.
To organize and develop research and dissemination of research results through planned, innovative, and quality scientific publications in accordance with global developments in the fields of Data Science and Intelligent System.
To improve information literacy in society through the application of research results, service, and cooperation to elements of society.
Strengthening cooperation and collaboration across multidisciplinary and multicultural fields through the implementation of the Tri Dharma of higher education.

Goals & Targets

Goals
remove
To implement a Competency-Based Curriculum in accordance with the Graduate Profiles to improve the quality of innovative learning management in the Information Technology Study Program, especially in the fields of Data Science and Intelligent System.
To produce graduates who are professional, devoted, innovative, resilient, competent, have a culture of research, have achievements, and have competitive abilities in the field of Information Technology at national and international levels.
To produce research that is innovative, follows technological developments, is community-based, has good scientific ethics in terms of quality and quantity, and is disseminated through scientific papers both nationally and internationally specialized in the fields of Data Science and Intelligent Systems.
To produce research that raises local potential related to culture and history packaged in the form of information technology and disseminated through scientific papers both nationally and internationally.
To organize services, community service activities, and cooperation with the scientific community within the scope of international, university, government, private, and society through the utilization of research laboratories, the channeling of scientific literacy, community problem solving on an ongoing basis in the fields of Data Science and Intelligent System.
To organize community service in the field of information technology that can increase knowledge and open business opportunities for society.
To increase institutional cooperation of Study Programs in the field of Education at national and international levels.
To increase institutional cooperation of Study Programs in the field of Research at national and international levels.
To increase institutional cooperation of Study Programs in the field of Community Service at national and international levels.

Organization Structure

Dedy Arisandi S.T., M.Kom.
Head Of Undergraduate Program In Information Technology
Dr. Baihaqi Siregar S.Si., M.T.
Ivan Jaya S.Si., M.Kom.
Ainul Hizriadi S.Kom., M.Sc
Ulfi Andayani S.Kom., M.Kom
Mohammad Fadly Syah Putra M.Sc
Dani Gunawan S.T., M.T.
Umaya Ramadhani Putri Nasution S.TI., M.Kom.
Fahrurrozi Lubis B.IT., M.Sc.IT
Annisa Fadhillah Pulungan S.Kom., M.Kom
Rossy Nurhasanah S.Kom., M.Kom
Muhammad Safri Lubis S.T., M.Com.
Ade Sarah Huzaifah S.Kom., M.Kom
Rendra Mahardika M.Kom
Lia Silviana M.Kom
Sarah Purnamawati S.T., M.Sc.
Prof. Dr. Romi Fadillah Rahmat B.Comp.Sc., M.Sc.
Seniman S.Kom., M.Kom.
Fanindia Purnamasari S.TI., M.IT

Students Organization

HIMATIF
FACULTY OF COMPUTER SCIENCE AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
UNIVERSITAS SUMATERA UTARA

Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology Universitas Sumatera Utara

9 Universitas Road, Medan, North Sumatra, Indonesia 20155

mail
fasilkomti@usu.ac.id (General enquiries or feedback)
Sitemap
Report
Frequently Asked Questions
Archive
Website Usage Policy
Website Copyright

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara