USU Official
Prospective Students
Students
Alumni & Careers
Lecturers & Staff
International Visitors
Media & Partners
Services
Accreditation & Achievements
Virtual Gallery
EN
expand_more
Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology
Universitas Sumatera Utara
About Us
Education
Research
Community Service
News
E-Magazine
Faculty News
Faculty Agenda
Faculty Announcement
Faculty Article
PPID Executive
Building the Foundation for a Digital Future
Master&#039;s Program in Informatics Engineering
General Information
About
Academic
Research & Service
Alumni
Activities
SDGs

As an advanced study program after the Undergraduate Programs in Computer Science & Information Technology, the Master's Program in Informatics Engineering of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) has a primary focus on equipping students with in-depth insights, technical expertise, and world-class competencies to compete in the global market.

Year Established
2009
Lecturer
5
Professor
xxx
33
Students
52
Staff
1
Alumni
560
Citation
With great pleasure, I am pleased to welcome you to the Master's Program in Informatics Engineering at the Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology, Universitas Sumatera Utara.

Assalamu'alaikum Wr. Wb. The Master’s Program in Informatics Engineering is strongly committed to improving the quality of education, broadening students' horizons and skills, and supporting the internationalization agenda launched by the university. As part of this commitment, the Master's Program in Informatics Engineering has designed an Outcome-Based Education (OBE) curriculum to ensure that each graduate has a strong theoretical understanding and practical skills relevant to industry needs. The curriculum development process is based on input from various parties, such as industry, alumni, and associations, to ensure sustainability and relevance to the increasingly complex world of work. The Master’s Program in Informatics Engineering pays attention to developing students' practical skills and knowledge through various workshops and seminars to deepen their knowledge and skills. Collaboration has also been developed with several reputable universities abroad to align student and lecturer research quality with the latest conditions. Our commitment to quality academic services, integrity, and open communication are prioritized in organizing higher education in Indonesia. Hopefully, all these efforts will contribute significantly to developing higher education in Indonesia. Wassalamu'alaikum Wr. Wb.

Dr. Eng Ade Candra, S.T., M.Kom.
Head of Master's Program in Informatics Engineering
Master's Program in Informatics Engineering
Accredited Very Good
No. 076/SK/LAM-INFOKOM/Ak/M/XII/2022
Curriculum Master's Program in Informatics Engineering

You will learn things such as:

Machine Learning
Internet Of Things
Cyber Security
Curriculum
Contact Us

Master's Program in Informatics Engineering Universitas Sumatera Utara

Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology

Universitas Sumatera Utara

my_location
phone
(+62) 812 6000 6797
mail
mti@usu.ac.id
fasilkomti_usu
Fasilkom - TI USU

Alumni Testimonials

Find out more information

About

Vision and Mission

Curriculum

Study Fee

Curriculum

Thesis Procedure
FACULTY OF COMPUTER SCIENCE AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
UNIVERSITAS SUMATERA UTARA

Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology Universitas Sumatera Utara

9 Universitas Road, Medan, North Sumatra, Indonesia 20155

mail
fasilkomti@usu.ac.id (General enquiries or feedback)
Sitemap
Report
Frequently Asked Questions
Archive
Website Usage Policy
Website Copyright

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara