USU Official
Prospective Students
Students
Alumni & Careers
Lecturers & Staff
International Visitors
Media & Partners
Services
Accreditation & Achievements
Virtual Gallery
EN
expand_more
Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology
Universitas Sumatera Utara
About Us
Education
Research
Community Service
News
E-Magazine
Faculty News
Faculty Agenda
Faculty Announcement
Faculty Article
PPID Executive

> News > Alibaba Cloud Conducts Workshop on Understanding the World of Cloud Computing at USU's Fasilkom-TI

Alibaba Cloud Conducts Workshop on Understanding the World of Cloud Computing at USU's Fasilkom-TI
Published At

21 September 2023

Published By

Anonymous Writer

Thumbnail Alibaba Cloud Conducts Workshop on Understanding the World of Cloud Computing at USU's Fasilkom-TI
Alibaba Cloud has conducted a workshop on Understanding the World of Cloud Computing at the Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology (Fasilkom-TI), Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU). This workshop was held at the USU Faculty of Economics and Business (FEB) Hall on Wednesday, September 13, 2022.

Alibaba Cloud has conducted a workshop on Understanding the World of Cloud Computing at the Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology (Fasilkom-TI), Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU). This workshop was held at the USU Faculty of Economics and Business (FEB) Hall on Wednesday, September 13, 2022.

Alibaba Cloud is the digital technology and intelligence backbone of Alibaba Group, and one of the world's three leading IaaS (Infrastructure as a Service) providers. Alibaba Cloud is also the most significant public cloud service provider in China. Currently, Alibaba Cloud has 3 Data Centers (Data Center) and 1 Scrubbing Center in Indonesia. This workshop is a form of support and cooperation from Fasilkom-TI towards Alibaba Cloud.

The workshop began with an opening by the MC (Master Ceremony) followed by remarks from the Dean of Fasilkom-TI, Dr. Maya Silvi Lydia, B.Sc, M.Sc. In his speech, the Dean of Fasilkom-TI said that cloud computing can help make decisions from big data to be efficient with a high priority scale. He also added that this activity is the first step for cooperation with Alibaba Cloud.

Then, Aaron Berliano Handoko, Alibaba Cloud Indonesia Marketing Technical Manager, presented material. The presentation began with an introduction to cloud computing and its application in everyday life. The material continued with an introduction to Alibaba Cloud and its products. The participants who attended received a certificate from Alibaba Cloud.

News
Find Other News
News

Fasilkom-TITerima Fasilitas CSR Wifi Corner dari PT Pertamina Gas Negara

News

Class Visit from SMAS Sukma Bangsa Lhokseumawe to Fasilkom-TI USU

News

Fasilkom-TI USU Promotes Integrity Through Anti-Corruption Awareness Program

FACULTY OF COMPUTER SCIENCE AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
UNIVERSITAS SUMATERA UTARA

Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology Universitas Sumatera Utara

9 Universitas Road, Medan, North Sumatra, Indonesia 20155

mail
fasilkomti@usu.ac.id (General enquiries or feedback)
Sitemap
Report
Frequently Asked Questions
Archive
Website Usage Policy
Website Copyright

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara