USU Official
Prospective Students
Students
Alumni & Careers
Lecturers & Staff
International Visitors
Media & Partners
Services
Accreditation & Achievements
Virtual Gallery
EN
expand_more
Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology
Universitas Sumatera Utara
About Us
Education
Research
Community Service
News
E-Magazine
Faculty News
Faculty Agenda
Faculty Announcement
Faculty Article
PPID Executive
Building the Foundation for a Digital Future
Undergraduate Program In Computer Science
USU 100%
Universitas Sumatera Utara
General Information
About
Academic
Research & Service
Alumni
Activities
SDGs

As a study program that has been accredited Excellent and established since 2001, the Undergraduate Program in Computer Science of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) has produced numerous outstanding students and created qualified computer experts spread throughout Indonesia. The program aims to teach the science of computing, hardware management, and computer software development.

Year Established
2001
Lecturer
13
Professor
xxx
268
Students
561
Staff
2
Alumni
1523
Citation
143
With great pleasure, I am pleased to welcome you to the Undergraduate Program in Computer Science at the Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology, Universitas Sumatera Utara.

Assalamualaikum Wr. Wb. In the spirit of continuous improvement and dedication to achieving global education standards, the Undergraduate Program in Computer Science at the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) participates in supporting the Internationalization Program launched by the university. As part of this effort, the Undergraduate Program in Computer Science has implemented an Outcome-Based Education (OBE) curriculum to ensure that each graduate not only masters the theory, but also has practical skills that are ready for use in the world of work. This curriculum adjustment is carried out by taking into account input from various parties, including industry, alumni, and stakeholders, to ensure its relevance and applicability in the field. The Undergraduate Program in Computer Science is committed to continuously developing and updating the education system, especially the curriculum, so that it is not only relevant to the needs of the times, but also meets international standards. This is proof of the dedication of the Computer Science Study Program in improving the quality of education and meeting the Key Performance Indicators (KPI) that have been set. The Undergraduate Program in Computer Science also focuses on developing students' practical skills through increasing the depth and breadth of laboratory-based knowledge, as well as collaboration with various institutions for internship programs that prepare students with real work experience. In addition, improving the quality of lecturers and teaching staff is a priority for the Undergraduate Program in Computer Science, by involving industry practitioners in the teaching and learning process. The Undergraduate Program in Computer Science is also committed to improving the quality of research involving collaboration with industry partners and active student participation. The Undergraduate Program in Computer Science always encourages collaborative and participatory teaching methods, and applies the principles of transparency, service orientation, and support for corruption-free integrity zones in all our administrative and administrative processes. Undergraduate Program in Computer Science is open to any input, complaints, and complaints through various channels that have been provided, including the online platform at wbs.usu.ac.id, as part of our efforts to continuously improve and provide effective solutions for all parties. May Allah SWT bless our efforts in providing quality education and benefitting the people. Amen. Wassalamu'alaikum Wr. Wb.

Dr. Amalia, S.T., M.T.
Head of Undergraduate Program In Computer Science
Undergraduate Program In Computer Science
Accredited Excellent
No. 056/SK/LAM-INFOKOM/Ak/S/III/2024
Curriculum Undergraduate Program In Computer Science

You will learn things such as:

Cryptography
Artificial Intelligence
Decision Support Systems
Heuristics
Data Science
Curriculum
Contact Us

Undergraduate Program In Computer Science Universitas Sumatera Utara

Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology

Universitas Sumatera Utara

my_location
phone
(061) 8211633
mail
ilkom@usu.ac.id
fasilkomti_usu
Fasilkom - TI USU

Alumni Testimonials

Paving the way for my successful IT company and national-level opportunities.

As a young person from a rural and remote area, my initial step in facing the IT industry began by seizing the opportunities offered by Fasilkom-TI USU. Through my higher education there, I became the first Computer Science graduate in the history of my family and hometown. This achievement brought a special pride to us.

Higher education also helped me establish and sustain my IT company to this day. The coursework provided a strong foundation for my skills.

During my studies, learning algorithms, programming, and project management in informatics were my main focuses. I was active in campus communities and organizations that helped strengthen my mental resilience, time management, public speaking, and decision-making skills. These activities have opened doors of opportunity for me up to a national level in the IT industry.

Ronaldi Tumanggor

2013 - CEO & IT Manager

Find out more information

About

Vision and Mission

Curriculum

Study Fee

Curriculum

Thesis Procedure
FACULTY OF COMPUTER SCIENCE AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
UNIVERSITAS SUMATERA UTARA

Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology Universitas Sumatera Utara

9 Universitas Road, Medan, North Sumatra, Indonesia 20155

mail
fasilkomti@usu.ac.id (General enquiries or feedback)
Sitemap
Report
Frequently Asked Questions
Archive
Website Usage Policy
Website Copyright

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara