USU Official
Prospective Students
Students
Alumni & Careers
Lecturers & Staff
International Visitors
Media & Partners
Services
Accreditation & Achievements
Virtual Gallery
EN
expand_more
Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology
Universitas Sumatera Utara
About Us
Education
Research
Community Service
News
E-Magazine
Faculty News
Faculty Agenda
Faculty Announcement
Faculty Article
PPID Executive

> News > Fasilkom-TI Conducts Practical Lecture on Virtual Systems: Practical Guide to Cloud Virtualization, IaC, and Security

Fasilkom-TI Conducts Practical Lecture on Virtual Systems: Practical Guide to Cloud Virtualization, IaC, and Security
Published At

19 June 2024

Published By

Ahmad Fadhil S.Kom

Thumbnail Fasilkom-TI Conducts Practical Lecture on Virtual Systems: Practical Guide to Cloud Virtualization, IaC, and Security
The Fasilkom-TI USU held a lecture on cloud virtualization, IaC, and security on June 6, 2024, featuring Ryan Hamonangan, followed by a Q&A session.

The Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology (Fasilkom-TI) of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) has held a practitioner lecture in the field of virtual systems with the title "Practical Guide to Cloud Virtualization, IaC, and Security". This practitioner lecture was held on Thursday, June 6, 2024 at the Digital Learning Center Building (DLCB) 8th Floor, Universitas Sumatera Utara.

This activity was moderated by Information Technology Lecturer, Seniman, S.Kom, M.Kom., followed by remarks from the Head of the Information Technology Study Program, Dedy Arisandi, S.T, M.Kom., and singing the Indonesia Raya song. The speaker of this practitioner lecture was Ryan Hamonangan, S.Kom, M.T., a Software Architect from Astra International Tbk Olx Indonesia.

In the presentation, Ryan explained about cloud computing, such as cloud computing service providers that are widely used by people, how it works and the benefits of using cloud computing. In addition, Ryan also invited students to create a database design for the USU cafe website. Furthermore, certificates from Fasilkom-TI were given to the speakers.

At the end of the session, questions and answers were opened to the speakers. Some Fasilkom-TI students asked the speakers about the use of databases, how a system is exposed to data leaks and blockchain. From this question and answer session, it shows that Fasilkom-TI students are very enthusiastic about this practitioner lecture.

News
Find Other News
News

Fasilkom-TITerima Fasilitas CSR Wifi Corner dari PT Pertamina Gas Negara

News

Class Visit from SMAS Sukma Bangsa Lhokseumawe to Fasilkom-TI USU

News

Fasilkom-TI USU Promotes Integrity Through Anti-Corruption Awareness Program

FACULTY OF COMPUTER SCIENCE AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
UNIVERSITAS SUMATERA UTARA

Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology Universitas Sumatera Utara

9 Universitas Road, Medan, North Sumatra, Indonesia 20155

mail
fasilkomti@usu.ac.id (General enquiries or feedback)
Sitemap
Report
Frequently Asked Questions
Archive
Website Usage Policy
Website Copyright

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara