USU Official
Prospective Students
Students
Alumni & Careers
Lecturers & Staff
International Visitors
Media & Partners
Services
Accreditation & Achievements
Virtual Gallery
EN
expand_more
Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology
Universitas Sumatera Utara
About Us
Education
Research
Community Service
News
E-Magazine
Faculty News
Faculty Agenda
Faculty Announcement
Faculty Article
PPID Executive

> News > The Rector's Working Visit to Work Units at Fasilkom-TI

The Rector's Working Visit to Work Units at Fasilkom-TI
Published At

10 January 2023

Published By

Ahmad Fadhil S.Kom

Thumbnail The Rector's Working Visit to Work Units at Fasilkom-TI
The Rector's visit to Fasilkom-TI aims to monitor and strengthen the performance and activities of work units.

Working Visit of the Rector to work units at the Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology (Fasilkom-TI) Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), known as "Rektor Menyapa" or Rektor's Greetings, was successfully conducted on Tuesday, January 10, 2023, in the Seminar Room of Building D at Fasilkom-TI.

 

The event was attended by Dr. Muryanto Amin, S.Sos., M.Si., the Rector of USU; Prof. Dr. Opim Salim Sitompul, M.Sc., Vice Rector IV; Dr. Maya Silvi Lydia, M.Sc., the Dean of Fasilkom-TI; Dr. Mohammad Andri Budiman, S.T., M.Comp.Sc., M.E.M., Vice Dean I; Sarah Purnamawati ST., M.Sc., Vice Dean II; and various lecturers from Fasilkom-TI.

 

In his opening remarks, the Rector explained that the purpose of this activity is to evaluate programs that were implemented in 2022 and to discuss and align perceptions so that new programs in this year can run smoothly. Furthermore, main issues to be addressed this year include learning methods, learning process improvement curriculum quality facilities software and hardware quality.

 

In addition to that,in 2023 USU will implement a new program called International Class which aims to transform classrooms into spaces that can fulfill various indicators set by the university. The International Class program will focus on aspects such as education ethics innovation research Student Creativity Week (Pekan Kreativitas Mahasiswa) and collaboration with practitioner lecturers or foreign lecturers.This event also serves as a platform for discussion and Q&A session between academic community members from Fasilkom-TI with the Rector.

 

Overall,the visit provided an opportunity for fruitful discussions which will contribute to further development and improvement in various areas at Fasilkom-TI under USU's guidance.

News
Find Other News
News

Fasilkom-TITerima Fasilitas CSR Wifi Corner dari PT Pertamina Gas Negara

News

Class Visit from SMAS Sukma Bangsa Lhokseumawe to Fasilkom-TI USU

News

Fasilkom-TI USU Promotes Integrity Through Anti-Corruption Awareness Program

FACULTY OF COMPUTER SCIENCE AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
UNIVERSITAS SUMATERA UTARA

Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology Universitas Sumatera Utara

9 Universitas Road, Medan, North Sumatra, Indonesia 20155

mail
fasilkomti@usu.ac.id (General enquiries or feedback)
Sitemap
Report
Frequently Asked Questions
Archive
Website Usage Policy
Website Copyright

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara