USU Official
Prospective Students
Students
Alumni & Careers
Lecturers & Staff
International Visitors
Media & Partners
Services
Accreditation & Achievements
Virtual Gallery
EN
expand_more
Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology
Universitas Sumatera Utara
About Us
Education
Research
Community Service
News
E-Magazine
Faculty News
Faculty Agenda
Faculty Announcement
Faculty Article
PPID Executive

Anandhini Medianty Nababan

M.T

Anandhini Medianty Nababan, M.T

Employee ID Number

199304132024062001

National Lecturer Registration Number

0013049304

Study Program
Program Studi S1 Ilmu Komputer
Field Of Knowledge
Software Engineering
Positions
Assistant Professor - Lower
Research Media
Contacts:
E-mail

nababan.anandhini@usu.ac.id

Office Address

Jalan Universitas No. 9A Kampus USU Medan

Curriculum Vitae
file_download
Profile

Mrs. Anandini Medianty Nababan, who is often called Dhini, is a woman of genuine Batak blood. She was born in Medan, on April 13, 1993. She attended formal education from elementary to undergraduate in Medan. After graduating from the Computer Science Undergraduate Study Program at Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU), she continued her education in the Informatics Master Study Program at Institut Teknologi Bandung (ITB) by receiving a scholarship from Lembaga Pengelola Dana Pendidikan (LPDP).

Mrs. Dhini presented her thesis research in 2019 at the International Conference on Electrical Engineering and Informatics (ICEEI), one of the IEEE conferences, in Bandung. She had worked at Xtremax Bandung and PT. Sanggar Jaya Abadi as a software developer, now she is a programming instructor at Binus Center, in addition to being a lecturer at the Computer Science Undergraduate Study Program USU.

When Bu Dhini was young, she won several singing contests in Gereja Batak Karo Protestan (GBKP). She is still active as a song leader in the church until now. In addition, she also teaches Sunday school for children and youth at GBKP. Her other organizational activity is managing Mata Garuda LPDP.

Mrs. Dhini has attended several trainings, namely the Cisco Python Professional Academy Program and CCNA Network Engineer for Trainers from the Digital Talent Scholarship, as well as the Bina Nusantara In House Training Program in Implementation of Java. She realized that we should be grateful for everything that we have as it is a gift from God. Our job is to learn to be content and “to make the best of what we have”. Next, leave the results to the Creator because He knows what is best for us.

Making the best of what you have

Publications
Other Publications 

National Publications

International Publications

Researchs
Other Researches 
Community Services
Other Services 
Intellectual Property Rights
Other Intellectual Property Rights 
Courses Taught

Year Of Study

All
2025
2024
2023
2022
2021

Semester

Odd
Even

No data available

FACULTY OF COMPUTER SCIENCE AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
UNIVERSITAS SUMATERA UTARA

Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology Universitas Sumatera Utara

9 Universitas Road, Medan, North Sumatra, Indonesia 20155

mail
fasilkomti@usu.ac.id (General enquiries or feedback)
Sitemap
Report
Frequently Asked Questions
Archive
Website Usage Policy
Website Copyright

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara