USU Official
Prospective Students
Students
Alumni & Careers
Lecturers & Staff
International Visitors
Media & Partners
Services
Accreditation & Achievements
Virtual Gallery
EN
expand_more
Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology
Universitas Sumatera Utara
About Us
Education
Research
Community Service
News
E-Magazine
Faculty News
Faculty Agenda
Faculty Announcement
Faculty Article
PPID Executive

> News > Fasilkom-TI Conducts Field Assessment for Accreditation of S1 Information Technology Program

Fasilkom-TI Conducts Field Assessment for Accreditation of S1 Information Technology Program
Published At

14 June 2024

Published By

Ahmad Fadhil S.Kom

Thumbnail Fasilkom-TI Conducts Field Assessment for Accreditation of S1 Information Technology Program
Fasilkom-TI USU conducted a field assessment for the accreditation of the S1 Information Technology program by LAM INFOKOM, involving visits, criteria discussions, and interviews.

The Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology (Fasilkom-TI) at Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) conducted a field assessment by the Independent Accreditation Institute for Informatics and Computer Science (LAM INFOKOM) for the S1 Information Technology program on Friday, March 8, 2024, at Fasilkom-TI USU. This activity was carried out as part of the accreditation process for the S1 Information Technology program at USU.

The assessment was attended by the LAM INFOKOM assessment team, including Prof. Dr. Eri Prasetyo, S.SI., M.M.S.I., from Universitas Gunadarma, and Dr. Nur Rokhman, S.Si., M.Kom., from Universitas Gadjah Mada. The event began with introductions and the signing of the Field Assessment statement. It continued with visits to classrooms, faculty offices, laboratories, and IT facilities.

The activities proceeded with discussions on criteria A, B, C1-C9, and D conducted by the assessment team, program leaders, research institutions, the Head of the Program Management Unit (UPPS), student affairs, financial department, and facilities management. Subsequently, interviews were conducted with faculty and educational staff by the assessment team. Additionally, interviews with students, alumni, and graduates' users were conducted to observe student interactions as subjects of the university.

The event concluded with the submission of the draft field assessment report to the UPPS leadership for review, signing of the field assessment report, and the delivery of feedback and developmental recommendations for Information Technology.

News
Find Other News
News

Fasilkom-TITerima Fasilitas CSR Wifi Corner dari PT Pertamina Gas Negara

News

Class Visit from SMAS Sukma Bangsa Lhokseumawe to Fasilkom-TI USU

News

Fasilkom-TI USU Promotes Integrity Through Anti-Corruption Awareness Program

FACULTY OF COMPUTER SCIENCE AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
UNIVERSITAS SUMATERA UTARA

Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology Universitas Sumatera Utara

9 Universitas Road, Medan, North Sumatra, Indonesia 20155

mail
fasilkomti@usu.ac.id (General enquiries or feedback)
Sitemap
Report
Frequently Asked Questions
Archive
Website Usage Policy
Website Copyright

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara