USU Official
Prospective Students
Students
Alumni & Careers
Lecturers & Staff
International Visitors
Media & Partners
Services
Accreditation & Achievements
Virtual Gallery
EN
expand_more
Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology
Universitas Sumatera Utara
About Us
Education
Research
Community Service
News
E-Magazine
Faculty News
Faculty Agenda
Faculty Announcement
Faculty Article
PPID Executive
Wirausaha Merdeka

About Program

Wirausaha Merdeka is part of the Kampus Merdeka program of the Ministry of Education, Culture, Research, and Technology of the Republic of Indonesia that provides opportunities for students to gain learning experience through entrepreneurial activities. The Wirausaha Merdeka program collaborates with the Program Implementing Universities with the goal of providing skills for students to hone their entrepreneurial spirit, encourage increased entrepreneurial experience, and increase student employability.
Benefit Wirausaha Merdeka
Provides practical experience for students in entrepreneurial activities through the process of equipping them with an entrepreneurial mindset and competencies, business concept development and creation as well as entrepreneurial practice and development.
Have competence in analyzing businesses and creating business opportunities.
Enhance work capabilities to improve the quality and capacity of university graduates.
Opportunities to learn outside the campus to further develop knowledge in the field of entrepreneurship.
Recognition of credits (SKS) equivalent to 20 SKS for the series of activities conducted.
Requirement Wirausaha Merdeka

Active students in the following educational levels: (a) Diploma (D-2, D-3, D-4) and Undergraduate (S-1) - at least in the 3rd semester; or (b) Master's (S-2) and Doctoral (S-3) - no semester restriction (without credit conversion).

Not currently working on a thesis or final project during the program.

Not taking any courses at their home institution while participating in the program.

Obtain a recommendation letter from the Head of the Study Program and the leader in academics of the institution.

Willing to participate in the program full-time (one semester), as indicated by a student declaration letter.

Kuliah Kerja Nyata Tematik
Wirausaha Merdeka
Pertukaran Mahasiswa Merdeka
Magang Bersertifikat
Kampus Mengajar
Studi Independen Bersertifikat
Praktisi Mengajar
IISMA
More About MBKM 
FACULTY OF COMPUTER SCIENCE AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
UNIVERSITAS SUMATERA UTARA

Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology Universitas Sumatera Utara

9 Universitas Road, Medan, North Sumatra, Indonesia 20155

mail
fasilkomti@usu.ac.id (General enquiries or feedback)
Sitemap
Report
Frequently Asked Questions
Archive
Website Usage Policy
Website Copyright

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara