USU Official
Prospective Students
Students
Alumni & Careers
Lecturers & Staff
International Visitors
Media & Partners
Services
Accreditation & Achievements
Virtual Gallery
EN
expand_more
Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology
Universitas Sumatera Utara
About Us
Education
Research
Community Service
News
E-Magazine
Faculty News
Faculty Agenda
Faculty Announcement
Faculty Article
PPID Executive
Building the Foundation for a Digital Future
Master&#039;s Program in Data Science and Artificial Intelligence
General Information
About
Academic
Research & Service
Alumni
Activities
SDGs

As an advanced study program after the Undergraduate Programs in Computer Science & Information Technology, the Master's Program in Data Science and Artificial Intelligence of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) focuses on developing its students' capabilities in two specific areas, namely data science and artificial intelligence. Data science is a discipline that combines knowledge in a field with skills in programming, mathematics, and statistics, aiming to extract information or knowledge from data. Meanwhile, artificial intelligence focuses on solving problems related to human cognitive functions, such as machine learning, problem solving, and pattern recognition, which are then applied in technology.

Supported by experts with international expertise and backed by an integrated curriculum, we have a deep commitment to prepare our students to take on the role of technopreneurs and IT experts who excel in their fields and can compete in the national and international markets. Graduates of our program have great opportunities for careers as data scientists and artificial intelligence developers.

Vision & Mission

Vision
remove

To become a leading master’s study program in the field of data science and artificial intelligence that produces competent graduates with global competitiveness and is recognized at the international level by 2024.

Mission
remove
To develop new specialized curricula and an innovative M.Sc. program on Data Science and Artificial Intelligence, thus helping build the capacity of the Asian partner countries’ (PC) HEIs, improve the level of competencies and skills offered, and address the existing absence of a similar programme.
To promote cooperation, exchange of know-how and good practices in Αsia between EU and PC HEIs.
Establish viable synergies and links with the regional IT Industry in order to address their needs in specialised personnel in DS&AI, training needs and enhance the employability of DS&AI graduates.

Goals & Targets

Goals
remove
Our program has been meticulously crafted to furnish students with the essential knowledge and expertise required to spearhead innovation and adaptation in alignment with the contemporary challenges.
Within this educational framework, students are encouraged to delve into the intricacies of data, algorithmic advancements, machine learning, and the practical deployment of artificial intelligence across diverse business and technological scenarios.
Recognizing that innovation thrives in a collaborative environment, we foster interdisciplinary cooperation and have forged partnerships with a multitude of institutions and industries to ensure that our educational offerings remain pertinent and actionable in real-world settings.

Organization Structure

Dr. Erna Budhiarti Nababan M.IT
Head Of Master Program In Data Science And Artificial Intelligence
Dr. Baihaqi Siregar S.Si., M.T.
Dr. Marischa Elveny S.TI., M.Kom.
Dr. Muhammad Anggia Muchtar S.T., MM.IT.
Dr. Niskarto Zendrato S.Kom., M.Kom
FACULTY OF COMPUTER SCIENCE AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
UNIVERSITAS SUMATERA UTARA

Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology Universitas Sumatera Utara

9 Universitas Road, Medan, North Sumatra, Indonesia 20155

mail
fasilkomti@usu.ac.id (General enquiries or feedback)
Sitemap
Report
Frequently Asked Questions
Archive
Website Usage Policy
Website Copyright

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara