USU Official
Prospective Students
Students
Alumni & Careers
Lecturers & Staff
International Visitors
Media & Partners
Services
Accreditation & Achievements
Virtual Gallery
EN
expand_more
Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology
Universitas Sumatera Utara
About Us
Education
Research
Community Service
News
E-Magazine
Faculty News
Faculty Agenda
Faculty Announcement
Faculty Article
PPID Executive
Building the Foundation for a Digital Future
Undergraduate Program in Computer Science
General Information
About
Academic
Research & Service
Alumni
Activities
SDGs

As a study program that has been accredited Excellent and established since 2001, the Undergraduate Program in Computer Science of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) has produced numerous outstanding students and created qualified computer experts spread throughout Indonesia. The program aims to teach the science of computing, hardware management, and computer software development.

Taught by experts in the field of information technology with national teaching certificates and supported by an integrated curriculum, we have a deep commitment in providing our students with an interactive education and learning experiences in the hope that they will become the best in the field of information technology, competence, and able to compete in the era of digitalization, both on a national and international scale. Graduates of our program have extensive career opportunities in various digital fields, such as software engineers, web designers, information technology consultants, and many more.

History

2001

The Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology (Fasilkom-TI) of Universitas Sumatera Utara was established on September 6, 2011, with the issuance of the Decree of the Rector of USU Number 2360/UN5.1.R/SK/PRS/2011. The establishment of Fasilkom-TI USU has a long history and involves many parties. If calculated from the issuance of the permit to open a Computer Science Study Program by the Directorate General of Higher Education of the Ministry of Education and Culture of the Republic of Indonesia on November 22, 2001, until the formation of the Faculty, the time required is ten years. The first study program formed was the Undergraduate (S-1) Program in Computer Science under FMIPA USU’s auspices. The Undergraduate (S-1) Program in Computer Science was established in accordance with the Decree of the Directorate General of Higher Education Number 3551/D/T/2001 dated November 22, 2001, on permission to organize the Undergraduate (S-1) Program in Computer Science.

2007

At the end of 2007, the Directorate General of Higher Education issued a Decree on the Structuring and Codification of Study Programs in Higher Education Institutions Number 163/KEP/DIKTI/2007 dated 27 November 2007, which, among others, regulates the naming of undergraduate (S-1) computer study programs as follows: S-1 Informatics Engineering, S-1 Computer Systems, and S-1 Information Systems. However, this naming was later refined with the issuance of the Circular Letter of the Directorate General of Higher Education Number 1030/D/T/2010. With the issuance of the Circular Letter of the Directorate General of Higher Education, higher education institutions organizing the field of computers and informatics were given the opportunity to reorganize the naming of the study programs they manage. Universitas Sumatera Utara thus re-established the name for its two study programs to become the Undergraduate (S-1) Program in Computer Science and the Undergraduate (S-1) Program in Information Technology.

arrow_back_ios_new arrow_forward_ios

Vision & Mission

Vision
remove

To become a research-based Computer Science Study Program that is adaptive, collaborative, and creative with international standards, especially in the fields of artificial intelligence, infrastructure and security, and software engineering.

Mission
remove
To prepare Computer Science academicians who have the character of BINTANG (Devoted to Almighty God in the frame of diversity, Innovative and has Integrity, Resilient and Wise) and are ready to compete in the global community.
To improve Education in the field of Computer Science, especially in the areas of expertise of artificial intelligence, infrastructure and security, and software engineering.
To develop Research in the field of Computer Science and innovative technology that can contribute to Society’s quality of life in the frame of Tropical Science and Medicine, Agroindustry, Local Wisdom, Energy [sustainable], Natural Resources [biodiversity, forest marine, mine, tourism], Technology [appropriate] and Arts [ethnic] (TALENTA) USU.
To organize Community Service by utilizing information and computer technology to improve Society’s quality of life.
To establish Cooperation with graduate users on an ongoing basis in the fields of research, community service, and field work practice to improve the quality of education.
To play an active role in higher education professional organizations in the field of computer science to answer stakeholder needs.

Goals & Targets

Goals
remove
To produce graduates who are able to solve real problems in the field of computer science.
To produce graduates who have the core values of BINTANG (Devoted to Almighty God in the frame of diversity, Innovative and has Integrity, Resilient and Wise).
To become a study program with good governance in order to support the formation of an independent USU.

Organization Structure

Dr. Amalia S.T., M.T.
Head Of Undergraduate Program In Computer Science
Dr. Jos Timanta Tarigan S.Kom., M.Sc
Dr. Sri Melvani Hardi S.Kom., M.Kom
Dr. T. Henny Febriana Harumy S.Kom., M.Kom
Dr. Handrizal S.Si., M.Comp.Sc
Fuzy Yustika Manik S.Kom., M.Kom
Hayatunnufus S.Kom, M.Cs
Anandhini Medianty Nababan M.T
Dr. Pauzi Ibrahim Nainggolan S.Komp., M.Sc.
Dr. Fauzan Nurahmadi S.Kom., M.Cs
Desilia Selvida S.Kom., M.Kom
Amer Sharif S.Si, M.Kom
Dr. Dewi Sartika Br Ginting S.Kom., M.Kom
Insidini Fawwaz M.Kom
Nurrahmadayeni M.Kom
Herriyance S.T., M.Kom.
Dian Rachmawati S.Si., M.Kom.

Students Organization

IMILKOM
FACULTY OF COMPUTER SCIENCE AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
UNIVERSITAS SUMATERA UTARA

Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology Universitas Sumatera Utara

9 Universitas Road, Medan, North Sumatra, Indonesia 20155

mail
fasilkomti@usu.ac.id (General enquiries or feedback)
Sitemap
Report
Frequently Asked Questions
Archive
Website Usage Policy
Website Copyright

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara