USU Official
Prospective Students
Students
Alumni & Careers
Lecturers & Staff
International Visitors
Media & Partners
Services
Accreditation & Achievements
Virtual Gallery
EN
expand_more
Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology
Universitas Sumatera Utara
About Us
Education
Research
Community Service
News
E-Magazine
Faculty News
Faculty Agenda
Faculty Announcement
Faculty Article
PPID Executive

> News > Successful Focus Group Discussion on AI Startups at the Undergraduate Program in Information Technology, Fasilkom-TI, USU, in Collaboration with Doku and Kata.ai

Successful Focus Group Discussion on AI Startups at the Undergraduate Program in Information Technology, Fasilkom-TI, USU, in Collaboration with Doku and Kata.ai
Published At

17 September 2024

Published By

Ahmad Fadhil S.Kom

Thumbnail Successful Focus Group Discussion on AI Startups at the Undergraduate Program in Information Technology, Fasilkom-TI, USU, in Collaboration with Doku and Kata.ai
The FGD on AI at the Undergraduate Program in Information Technology, USU, successfully provided insights on AI startups and innovation opportunities in the digital era, in collaboration with Doku and Kata.ai.

The Undergraduates Program in Information Technology at the Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology (Fasilkom-TI) at Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) successfully held a Focus Group Discussion (FGD) on Artificial Intelligence (AI) in collaboration with Doku and Kata.ai on Tuesday, September 17, in the Seminar Room of Building E, Fasilkom-TI.

 

The event began with participant registration, an opening and brief explanation of the agenda by the moderator, the singing of the national anthem "Indonesia Raya," welcoming remarks from the Head of the Undergraduates Program in Information Technology, Dedy Arisandi, S.T., M.Kom., and a group photo with faculty, speakers, and Information Technology students.

 

The event proceeded with Session 1, which featured a presentation titled “Designing a Business Model Canvas for Digital AI Startups” by Doku's Product Manager, Ricky Hilmi Sudrajad. During his presentation, he discussed the key role of AI in digital transformation, the implementation of Generative AI (GenAI) for digital AI startups, an introduction to the business model canvas, and how to create a business model canvas for digital AI startups. This session was followed by a Q&A segment with Information Technology students. To conclude Session 1, there was an interactive discussion between students and the speaker on creating a business model canvas for designing a digital AI startup.

 

Session 2 featured a presentation titled “Building the Future of Business With Artificial Intelligence” by the Commercial Director of Kata.ai, Wisnu D. Yudha. The presentation began with a brief introduction to Kata.ai, discussed the rapidly evolving field of Generative AI, competition in the AI space, strategies for building AI startups, and a strategic framework for AI startups. Overall, this presentation provided critical insights into the importance of innovation in generative AI technology and the significant opportunities for startups to thrive in an ever-changing business landscape. Session 2 also included a Q&A segment with Information Technology students, concluding with an interactive discussion on drafting a business proposal.

 

The FGD concluded with a summary from the moderator. Participants, especially the Information Technology students, expressed that the insights provided by both speakers were immensely helpful, particularly regarding the opportunities and challenges of building AI startups in the digital era. It is hoped that this event will motivate students to delve deeper into the world of AI and prepare themselves to face the rapidly evolving technological revolution. Additionally, this initiative is expected to mark the beginning of more intensive collaboration between Fasilkom-TI, the industry, and the AI startup ecosystem in the future.

 

News
Find Other News
News

Fasilkom-TITerima Fasilitas CSR Wifi Corner dari PT Pertamina Gas Negara

News

Class Visit from SMAS Sukma Bangsa Lhokseumawe to Fasilkom-TI USU

News

Fasilkom-TI USU Promotes Integrity Through Anti-Corruption Awareness Program

FACULTY OF COMPUTER SCIENCE AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
UNIVERSITAS SUMATERA UTARA

Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology Universitas Sumatera Utara

9 Universitas Road, Medan, North Sumatra, Indonesia 20155

mail
fasilkomti@usu.ac.id (General enquiries or feedback)
Sitemap
Report
Frequently Asked Questions
Archive
Website Usage Policy
Website Copyright

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara