USU Official
Prospective Students
Students
Alumni & Careers
Lecturers & Staff
International Visitors
Media & Partners
Services
Accreditation & Achievements
Virtual Gallery
EN
expand_more
Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology
Universitas Sumatera Utara
About Us
Education
Research
Community Service
News
E-Magazine
Faculty News
Faculty Agenda
Faculty Announcement
Faculty Article
PPID Executive
Kuliah Kerja Nyata Tematik

About Program

Kuliah Kerja Nyata Tematik Pembelajaran Pemberdayaan Masyarakat Universitas Sumatera Utara (KKNT-PPM USU) is a form of education that provides learning experiences for students to live in rural communities. This program aims to hone the soft skills and hard skills of partnership and leadership of USU students in managing development programs in rural areas of North Sumatra Province.
Benefit Kuliah Kerja Nyata Tematik

For Students

Provide learning and working experiences to students on the application and development of science and technology outside the campus.
Adapt students to the situation and conditions of rural communities, and help them identify issues and potentials of the village while seeking solutions to enhance the village's potential to become self-reliant.
Train students to take responsibility for collaboratively applying their scientific competencies with all stakeholders of the village.
Foster a professional attitude in directly implementing community empowerment activities by collaboratively formulating Village Medium-Term Development Plans (RPJMDes), Village Annual Work Plans (RKPDes), and other strategic programs.
Gain experience and have the means to utilize science and technology and their acquired skills during their time in the village.

For Partners

Gain the opportunity to collaborate with young talents and lecturers in formulating Village Medium-Term Development Plans (RPJMDes) and Village Annual Work Plans (RKPDes) as well as other strategic programs.
Gain the opportunity to reform village governance.
Promote the development of much-needed young individuals in empowering rural communities.
Increase the rural community's awareness of village development.
Accelerate rural area development.

For Universities

Provide feedback to universities on the real needs of society in terms of science and technology.
Be a means for developing the three pillars of higher education and achieving key performance indicators (KPI 3, 5, 6, 7).
Serve as a platform for universities to establish networks or strategic partners in assisting village development.
Act as a means of actualizing lecturers in the development of knowledge.
Requirement Kuliah Kerja Nyata Tematik

For Students

Registered as an active student at a faculty within Universitas Sumatera Utara. 
Have completed at least six semesters or obtained a minimum of 100 credits.
Include the Community Service Learning (KKN) course in the odd semester Study Plan Card (KRS) with 3 credits. 
Provide an active and usable insurance membership card or letter. 
Register as a participant in KKNT-PPM by filling out the registration form through the provided link.
Attach the semester 6 (Six) KRS signed by the Academic Advisor (Dosen PA). 
Attend the orientation as scheduled. 
Comply with the regulations and provisions set by the organizer/Community Service Institute (LPPM).

For Field Supervisors (DPL)

Lecturers of Universitas Sumatera Utara who have a National Lecturer Identification Number (NIDN) or Special Lecturer Identification Number (NIDK) and are not currently pursuing further studies.
Not pregnant or breastfeeding.
Willing to become Field Supervisors.
Kuliah Kerja Nyata Tematik
Wirausaha Merdeka
Pertukaran Mahasiswa Merdeka
Magang Bersertifikat
Kampus Mengajar
Studi Independen Bersertifikat
Praktisi Mengajar
IISMA
More About MBKM 

Participant

Name	NIM	Major	Mitra
Maulana Thoriq Arifin (KKNTD-01)			Desa Wisata, Tanah Merah, Binjai Selatan, Binjai
Andre Rizky (KKNTD-02)			Desa Wisata, Tanah Merah, Binjai Selatan, Binjai
Muhammad Reza Adyan Saski (KKNTD-03)			Desa Wisata, Tanah Merah, Binjai Selatan, Binjai
Samuel Lumban Binaga (KKNTD-04)			Desa Hijau, Cengkeh Turi, Binjai Utara, Binjai
Kelvin Syahtiyo Maulana (KKNTD-05)			Desa Hijau, Cengkeh Turi, Binjai Utara, Binjai
Muhammad Fiqri Silalahi (KKNTD-06)			Desa Hijau, Cengkeh Turi, Binjai Utara, Binjai
Farel Nicholas (KKNTD-07)			Desa Sehat, Payaroba, Binjai Barat, Binjai
M. Awwalul Ikhwan (KKNTD-08)			Desa Sehat, Payaroba, Binjai Barat, Binjai
Ridho Pratama Lubis (KKNTD-09)			Desa Sehat, Payaroba, Binjai Barat, Binjai
Riky Cristian Sembiring (KKNTD-10)			Desa Hijau, Dataran Tinggi, Binjai Timur, Binjai
<
1
2
3
4
5
6
...
14
>
FACULTY OF COMPUTER SCIENCE AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
UNIVERSITAS SUMATERA UTARA

Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology Universitas Sumatera Utara

9 Universitas Road, Medan, North Sumatra, Indonesia 20155

mail
fasilkomti@usu.ac.id (General enquiries or feedback)
Sitemap
Report
Frequently Asked Questions
Archive
Website Usage Policy
Website Copyright

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara