USU Official
Prospective Students
Students
Alumni & Careers
Lecturers & Staff
International Visitors
Media & Partners
Services
Accreditation & Achievements
Virtual Gallery
EN
expand_more
Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology
Universitas Sumatera Utara
About Us
Education
Research
Community Service
News
E-Magazine
Faculty News
Faculty Agenda
Faculty Announcement
Faculty Article
PPID Executive

> News > Fasilkom-TI Representative Team Wins Fordigi Hackathon Challenge 2023 Competition

Fasilkom-TI Representative Team Wins Fordigi Hackathon Challenge 2023 Competition
Published At

01 September 2023

Published By

Anonymous Writer

Thumbnail Fasilkom-TI Representative Team Wins Fordigi Hackathon Challenge 2023 Competition
A total of three teams from the Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology (Fasilkom-TI) of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) won the Fordigi Hackathon Challenge 2023 competition held on Tuesday, August 29, 2023 at the USU Student Center.

A total of three teams from the Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology (Fasilkom-TI) of the Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) won the Fordigi Hackathon Challenge 2023 competition held on Tuesday, August 29, 2023 at the USU Student Center.

Fordigi Goes to Campus was organized by Jasa Raharja and the Digital Forum (Fordigi) of State-Owned Enterprises (BUMN). USU became the sixth university visited by this activity. The Fordigi Goes to Campus City Chapter VI-Medan activity raised the theme "The future of digital mortgage." Some of the series of activities are hybrid seminars, the Fordigi Hackathon Challenge competition, the Deep Racer League competition, and the Call for Paper on Personal Data Protection Law (PDP).

Fordigi, previously known as Forti BUMN (BUMN Information Technology Forum), is a partner of the Ministry of BUMN in developing a global standard digital ecosystem and talent in BUMN. The Ministry of SOEs supports Fordigi in coordinating and organizing the SOE Digital Talent Program.

Fordigi Hackathon Challenge is a competition that aims to attract digital talents among students who can become problem solvers for issues in their respective regions. The five priority programs that the Mayor of Medan has set are health, infrastructure management, flood management and cleanliness, revamping heritage areas, and empowering MSMEs.

The first winner of the Fordigi Hackathon Challenge was won by the Tanimed Team, one of whose members is a student of Fasilkom-TI, Deza Banjarnahor from Information Technology 2021. The Tanimed team brought a solution to solve the problem of one of the five priority programs of the city of Medan, namely the health program in the focus area of stunting. The Tanimed team designed the solution in a high-fidelity prototype called Endstunting. The main feature of Endstunting is tracking and monitoring children's growth and development using artificial intelligence. In the next stage, Tanimed Team will be the representative of City Chapter Medan to participate in the National Fordigi Hackathon Final which will be held in Jakarta.

The Parentify Team, with two of its three members being Fasilkom-TI students Deza Banjarnahor and Ridopandi Sinaga from Information Technology 2021, won 3rd place in the Fordigi Hackathon Challenge. The Parentify team brought a solution about parenting by targeting solutions to the problems of the city of Medan in the first program, namely health, and the fourth program, namely cleanliness. The Parentify team produces high-fidelity prototype products intended to be a learning application designed by applying artificial intelligence by adjusting the user's level of understanding of parenting.

The Fordigi Hackathon Challenge Favorite Champion was won by the Techy Wizards Team led by Andhika Mandalanta Saragih and two members, Rani Widya Astuti and Pieter Tanoto from Computer Science 2021. The Techy Wizards team presented an application design by supporting the five priority programs of Medan City in the first program, namely health and the fourth program, namely cleanliness. The application design was made with the aim to help people find the nearest waste bank online and provide education to the people of Medan City on how to manage waste properly.

 

News
Find Other News
News

Fasilkom-TITerima Fasilitas CSR Wifi Corner dari PT Pertamina Gas Negara

News

Class Visit from SMAS Sukma Bangsa Lhokseumawe to Fasilkom-TI USU

News

Fasilkom-TI USU Promotes Integrity Through Anti-Corruption Awareness Program

FACULTY OF COMPUTER SCIENCE AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
UNIVERSITAS SUMATERA UTARA

Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology Universitas Sumatera Utara

9 Universitas Road, Medan, North Sumatra, Indonesia 20155

mail
fasilkomti@usu.ac.id (General enquiries or feedback)
Sitemap
Report
Frequently Asked Questions
Archive
Website Usage Policy
Website Copyright

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara