USU Official
Prospective Students
Students
Alumni & Careers
Lecturers & Staff
International Visitors
Media & Partners
Services
Accreditation & Achievements
Virtual Gallery
EN
expand_more
Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology
Universitas Sumatera Utara
About Us
Education
Research
Community Service
News
E-Magazine
Faculty News
Faculty Agenda
Faculty Announcement
Faculty Article
PPID Executive
Building the Foundation for a Digital Future
Master&#039;s Program in Informatics Engineering
General Information
About
Academic
Research & Service
Alumni
Activities
SDGs

As an advanced study program after the Undergraduate Programs in Computer Science & Information Technology, the Master's Program in Informatics Engineering of Universitas Sumatera Utara (USU) has a primary focus on equipping students with in-depth insights, technical expertise, and world-class competencies to compete in the global market.

Supported by lecturers who are experts in the field of informatics engineering with national teaching certificates and supported by an integrated curriculum, we have a deep commitment to providing intensive and effective guidance and learning experiences to our students. Our goal is to enhance students' abilities and prepare them to take on the role of technopreneurs and IT experts who are competent in their fields, as well as excellent and able to compete in the national and international markets. Graduates of the Master's Program in Informatics Engineering are expected to pursue professions in various technology fields, including technopreneurship, IT consultants, data scientists, etc.

History

2009

The Master’s Program in Informatics Engineering aims to educate students to become experts in the field of computer science or informatics engineering who are able to develop science and its applications, conduct research, design and implement software, and be able to solve computational problems in various fields. Since its establishment to date (2009 to 2013), the Master’s Program in Informatics Engineering has produced 85 alumni and the graduates are given the M.Kom. (Master of Computer) degree. Now, the study program is also under the auspices of the Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology.

2013

The Master’s Program in Informatics Engineering aims to educate students to become experts in the field of computer science or informatics engineering who are able to develop science and its applications, conduct research, design and implement software, and be able to solve computational problems in various fields. Since its establishment (2009) to 2013, the Master’s Program in Informatics Engineering has produced 85 alumni, and the graduates are given the M.Kom. (Master of Computer) degree. Now, the study program is also under the auspices of the Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology.

arrow_back_ios_new arrow_forward_ios

Vision & Mission

Vision
remove

To become a Study Program that excels in Education, Research, and Social Contribution nationally and internationally in the field of informatics engineering, especially in the fields of Cyber Security, Machine Learning, and the Internet of Things.

Mission
remove
To organize and develop national and international quality education and research in the field of Informatics Engineering, especially Cyber Security, Machine Learning, and the Internet of Things.
To develop and disseminate innovative science and technology that can make social contributions in the frame of Tropical Science and Medicine, Agroindustry, Local Wisdom, Energy [sustainable], Natural Resources [biodiversity, forest marine, mine, tourism], Technology [appropriate] and Arts [ethnic] (TALENTA) USU.
To utilize science and technology for the welfare and progress of the nation through the organization of research and community service activities while upholding ethical and moral values.

Goals & Targets

Goals
remove
To educate and produce graduates who have the core values of BINTANG (Devoted to Almighty God in the frame of diversity, Innovative and Has Integrity, Resilient and Wise) who can solve problems through science and technology of informatics engineering.
To educate and produce graduates who have high insight through excellent research in the fields of Cyber Security, Machine Learning, and the Internet of Things.
To educate and produce graduates who are able to develop and apply science and technology to produce research that is innovative, adaptive, noble, and disseminated through scientific works with national and international reputations.
To educate and produce graduates who are able to think critically and innovatively in their work while upholding the professional code of ethics.

Organization Structure

Dr. Eng Ade Candra S.T., M.Kom.
Head Of Master Program In Informatics
Dr. Jos Timanta Tarigan S.Kom., M.Sc
Dr. Ir. Elviawaty Muisa Zamzami S.T., M.T., M.M., IPU
Dr. Mohammad Andri Budiman S.T., M.Comp.Sc., M.E.M.
FACULTY OF COMPUTER SCIENCE AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
UNIVERSITAS SUMATERA UTARA

Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology Universitas Sumatera Utara

9 Universitas Road, Medan, North Sumatra, Indonesia 20155

mail
fasilkomti@usu.ac.id (General enquiries or feedback)
Sitemap
Report
Frequently Asked Questions
Archive
Website Usage Policy
Website Copyright

Copyright 2025 - Universitas Sumatera Utara